                  FOR PUBLICATION

   UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
       FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

In re: CALIFORNIA PIZZA                    No. 23-55288
KITCHEN DATA BREACH
LITIGATION,                                   D.C. Nos.
______________________________             8:21-cv-01928-
                                             DOC-KES
AVIVA KIRSTEN,                             2:21-cv-09578-
                                             DOC-KES
               Plaintiff-Appellant,

KANSAS GILLEO,
                                             OPINION

               Plaintiff-Appellee,

JEREMY PITTMAN, individually and
on behalf of all others similarly
situated,

               Plaintiff-Appellant,

SYDNEY RUSEN; ESTEBAN
MORALES; DOUG WALLACE;
BRETT RIGAS; EVENCIO DIAZ,
individually and on behalf of all others
similarly situated,
2         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.




                 Plaintiffs-Appellees,
    v.

CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN,
INC.,

                 Defendant-Appellee.


         Appeal from the United States District Court
            for the Central District of California
          David O. Carter, District Judge, Presiding

              Argued and Submitted June 3, 2024
                    Pasadena, California

                    Filed February 24, 2025

Before: Richard R. Clifton, Daniel P. Collins, and Kenneth
                 K. Lee, Circuit Judges.

                    Opinion by Judge Lee;
    Partial Concurrence and Partial Dissent by Judge Collins
         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.           3


                          SUMMARY *


             Class Settlement / Attorneys’ Fees

    The panel affirmed the district court’s approval of a class
settlement, reversed the attorneys’ fee award, and remanded
in a class action brought by California Pizza Kitchen, Inc.
(CPK) employees whose personal information was
compromised by a cyberattack.
    One group of plaintiffs’ lawyers struck a settlement with
CPK. The monetary value of the class’s claims were (at
most) around $950,000, yet the attorneys sought $800,000 in
fees. The district court approved the settlement.
    The panel held that district courts may approve claims-
made settlements—even those that raise indicia of
collusion—so long as they adhere to procedural
requirements and find the settlement “fair, reasonable, and
adequate” under Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(e). Although the district
court’s preliminary and final approval orders were sparse
and memorialized little of the district court’s rationale, the
panel did not remand because the panel could reasonably
infer the district court’s rationale from the record, which was
unusually extensive. The panel held that the district court
properly applied the In re Bluetooth Headset Prods. Liab.
Litig., 654 F.3d 935 (9th Cir. 2011), heightened standard to
review the settlement for collusion. The panel concluded that
upon a review of the record, the district court neither
procedurally erred nor abused its discretion in finding the


*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
4       IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


settlement substantively acceptable. The panel thus
affirmed the approval of the class settlement.
    The panel reversed the fee award because the district
court did not assess the actual value of the settlement and
compare it to the fees requested. The panel remanded for the
district court to determine the settlement’s actual value to
class members and award reasonable and proportionate
attorneys’ fees, consistent with this opinion.
    Judge Collins concurred in the judgment to the extent
that the majority reversed and remanded the district court’s
approval of the fee award. He dissented from the majority’s
decision to affirm the approval of the underlying settlement
because, in approving the final settlement proposal before
class certification, the district court provided little
explanation as to why it approved this settlement and instead
issued a series of perfunctory orders, despite the fact that
(1) the final settlement triggers every Bluetooth factor;
(2) the settlement’s final value ended up being nearly a
fourth of the estimated “conservative” value presented at the
preliminary approval hearing; and (3) the settlement’s
proposed fee award comprises nearly 46% of the entire
settlement.



                        COUNSEL

Theodore W. Maya (argued), Christopher Stiner, and Tina
Wolfson, Ahdoot & Wolfson PC, Burbank, California; Todd
S. Garber and Andrew C. White, Finkelstein Blankinship
Frei-Pearson and Garber LLP, White Plains, New York; Seth
A. Meyer, Meyer Law Firm PLLC, Scottsdale, Arizona; for
Plaintiffs-Appellants.
        IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.     5


David K. Lietz (argued), Milberg Coleman Bryson Phillips
Grossman PLLC, Washington, D.C.; Mason Barney, Siri &
Glimstad LLP, New York, New York; Rachele R. Byrd,
Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP, San Diego,
California; Daniel O. Herrera, Cafferty Clobes Meriwether
& Sprengel LLP, Chicago, Illinois; for Plaintiffs-Appellees.
Jon P. Kardassakis (argued) and Michael K. Grimaldi, Lewis
Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP, Los Angeles, California,
for Defendant-Appellee.



                         OPINION

LEE, Circuit Judge:

    California Pizza Kitchen, Inc. (CPK) is a restaurant chain
offering California-style pizza at about two-hundred
locations across the country. But in November 2021, CPK
was not in the news for its trademark Original BBQ Chicken
Pizza or its underrated Thai Chicken Pizza. Rather, CPK
revealed that a cyberattack had compromised the personal
information of over 100,000 former and current employees.
That disclosure spurred lawyers to race to the courthouse and
file competing class action lawsuits against CPK to get a
slice of the action.
    One group of plaintiffs’ lawyers quickly struck a
settlement with CPK: the deal offered cash payments and
credit monitoring services to class members but CPK would
only be required to make payments to class members who
submitted valid claims (i.e., a claims-made settlement).
Given the low redemption rate for claims, the monetary
value of the class’s claims is (at most) around $950,000—
6       IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


yet the attorneys sought $800,000 in fees. A competing
group of plaintiffs’ lawyers challenged that settlement,
contending that they could deliver a deal for the class that
would top it. Despite expressing some reservations, the
district court approved the settlement.
    We affirm the settlement approval but remand the
attorneys’ fee award. District courts may approve claims-
made settlements—even those that raise indicia of
collusion—so long as they adhere to procedural
requirements and find the settlement “fair, reasonable, and
adequate” under Rule 23(e). Our review of the record shows
that the district court neither procedurally erred nor abused
its discretion in finding the settlement substantively
acceptable. We thus affirm the approval of the class
settlement. But we reverse the fee award because the district
court did not assess the actual value of the settlement and
compare it to the fees requested.
                     BACKGROUND
    I. CPK suffers a cyberattack—and then a deluge of
       putative class actions.
    In September 2021, CPK fell prey to a cyberattack by
Conti, a ransomware group. Conti’s business model is
straightforward: it hacks into a company’s system, encrypts
the company’s files, and leaves a ransom note. In exchange
for payment, Conti provides its victims with a decryption
key and promises not to leak the stolen data. Conti has an
incentive to keep those promises—if it started releasing
stolen data, then future victims would be disinclined to pay.
    Faced with this sticky dilemma, CPK chose to pay the
ransom. Because the breach compromised employee data
(including Social Security numbers), CPK notified 103,767
           IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.                  7


of its former and current employees. Soon, numerous
plaintiffs’ lawyers filed a flurry of lawsuits—five in a matter
of weeks. 1 All these class action lawsuits alleged that CPK
failed to safeguard its employees’ personally identifiable
information, and brought claims for negligence, breach of
implied contract, and violations of business and privacy
statutes.
    Counsel for the first four cases filed (Gilleo, Morales,
Wallace, and Rigas) quickly agreed to cooperate with each
other in hopes of splitting the pie among themselves. They
made overtures to the Kirsten plaintiffs, trying to bring them
into the fold. But those attempts went nowhere: the Kirsten
plaintiffs had little appetite for cooperation, as their counsel
had divergent views on case strategy and jockeyed for the
position of lead counsel. The district court eventually
granted a stipulation consolidating Gilleo, Morales, Wallace,
and Rigas into a single action—In re California Pizza
Kitchen Data Breach Litigation. The Kirsten plaintiffs
trundled on alone.
    II. CPK and the consolidated plaintiffs reach a deal.
    CPK and the consolidated plaintiffs proceeded straight
into mediated settlement negotiations. In March 2022, they
jointly requested that the district court stay the action



1
 The five cases are Gilleo, et al. v. California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., et al.,
No. 8:21-cv-01928 (C.D. Cal. Nov. 23, 2021); Morales, et al. v.
California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., et al., No. 8:21-cv-01988 (C.D. Cal. Dec.
2, 2021); Wallace, et al. v. California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., et al., No. 8:21-
cv-01970 (C.D. Cal. Dec. 2, 2021); Rigas, et al. v. California Pizza
Kitchen, Inc., et al., No. 8:21-cv-02004 (C.D. Cal. Dec. 7, 2021); and
Kirsten, et al. v. California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., et al., No. 8:21-cv-09578
(C.D. Cal. Dec. 10, 2021).
8         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


pending finalization of a proposed settlement agreement. 2
Two months later, CPK and the consolidated plaintiffs
presented a proposed settlement to the district court for
preliminary approval. The proposed settlement class
included all former and current employees potentially
affected by CPK’s data breach, with a subclass for all class
members residing in California. The class agreed to release
all claims arising out of the data breach against CPK. CPK,
in exchange, agreed to provide certain relief to the class.
    First, CPK agreed that all class members could claim:
(1) up to $1,000 in reimbursement for ordinary expenses and
lost time incurred because of the data breach; (2) up to
$5,000 in compensation for monetary loss from actual
identity theft; and (3) 24-months’ worth of credit monitoring
services, which included $1 million in identity theft
insurance. Members of the California subclass could claim
another $100 statutory damages award, though that amount
would be counted towards the $1,000 reimbursement cap for
ordinary expenses. The settlement agreement did not set an
aggregate cap on these benefits, so CPK could theoretically
be on the hook for massive liability. But the agreement was
structured as a claims-made settlement, so class members
would only recover if they submitted a timely claims form
with supporting documentation—and the financial cost of
the settlement to CPK would rest on the number of valid
claims.



2
  Meanwhile, the district court granted CPK’s motion to dismiss the
Kirsten plaintiffs’ lawsuit for lack of standing. The Kirsten plaintiffs
amended the complaint, and CPK again moved to dismiss. The district
court dismissed a subset of those claims. But Kirsten halted when it was
stayed pending this appeal.
        IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.    9


    Second, CPK committed to limited injunctive relief.
Right after the cyberattack, CPK had engaged a third-party
cybersecurity consultant to provide post-breach “forensics,
recovery, and remediation.” As part of the settlement
agreement, CPK agreed to “maintain certain recently
implemented business practices and remedial measures” for
three years after the settlement date.
    Finally, the settlement agreement permitted class counsel
to request—without CPK’s objection—up to $800,000 in
attorneys’ fees and costs. Those fees would be paid by CPK
separately from any money disbursed to class members.
    The consolidated plaintiffs estimated that, in aggregate,
this settlement had “a conservative value of over $3.7
million.” By their calculations, if only 2% of the class—
which had around 103,767 members—claimed the full
$1,000 in ordinary expense reimbursements, then the
settlement would be worth $2,075,340. If only 5% of the
California subclass—which had around 30,781 members—
claimed the statutory damages amount, then that value
would increase by $153,905. And if only 4% of the class
claimed the credit monitoring service, which the
consolidated plaintiffs valued at $15 per month per person,
then another $1,494,244.80 could be stacked onto the
settlement’s value.
    Counsel for the Kirsten plaintiffs objected to the
settlement as collusive and the fees request as excessive. It
asked the court to appoint them as lead counsel, claiming
that they could negotiate a better settlement for the class.
10       IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


     III. The district court separately approves the
          settlement and attorneys’ fees.
    In June 2022, the district court convened a preliminary
approval hearing. At the hearing, the district court
extensively analyzed the proposed settlement. It invited
Bruce Friedman, the private mediator who oversaw the
settlement negotiations, to testify and probed him on the
parties’ negotiation process. The district court questioned
the consolidated plaintiffs on the many vigorous objections
raised by the Kirsten plaintiffs. And it raised its own
concerns about whether the settlement sufficiently addressed
the class members’ injuries.
    The district court preliminarily approved the proposed
settlement as “adequate, fair, and reasonable.” But it
declined to award attorneys’ fees without knowing the
number of submitted claims, and reserved that issue until
after the claims process had concluded.
    Once the claims deadline had passed, the consolidated
plaintiffs returned to seek final approval of the settlement
and attorneys’ fees. The consolidated plaintiffs reported:

        •   176 ordinary expense claims totaling
            $384,134.77;
        •   979 lost time claims totaling $50,320.00;
        •   45 identify theft claims totaling
            $191,354.50;
        •   803 California statutory damages claims
            totaling $80,300.00; and
          IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.             11


         •   1,264 claims for credit monitoring
             services, valued at $455,040.00.

They represented that the class had filed 1,828 claims with a
face value of $1,161,149.27, for a final claims rate of 1.8%.
These claims were unvalidated, meaning that the claims
administrator had not yet determined whether they were
properly documented and compliant with the settlement’s
terms. Even without validation, one glaring error is apparent
on its face: because of the $1,000 cap on ordinary expense
claims, the 176 ordinary expense claims are capped at
$176,000, despite the class members asking for
$384,134.77. That means the maximum monetary value of
the claims is, at most, around $950,000, not $1.16 million.
No matter the final value of the settlement, the consolidated
plaintiffs requested $773,632.95 in attorneys’ fees and
$26,367.05 in expenses.
    The district court observed that the settlement value had
dramatically deflated from the consolidated plaintiffs’
earlier estimate, and expressed “tremendous concern” over
the scope of attorneys’ fees. After holding two hearings in
November and December 2022, the district court issued final
approval of the settlement in a sparse written order. It
awarded the full $800,000 in attorneys’ fees and costs,
noting that attorneys’ fees “would constitute 36.3% of the
total class benefit, which is $2,133,719.” 3 The written order


3
  The consolidated plaintiffs reported an estimated “total benefit to the
class” of $2,133,719—made up of $1,161,149 in unvalidated submitted
claims; $172,570 in notice and settlement administration costs; and
$800,000 in attorneys’ fees. But as noted earlier, the $1,161,149 is
facially invalid under the settlement terms and should be reduced by over
$200,000.
12      IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


did not explain the court’s rationale for approving the
settlement and the fees.
    The Kirsten plaintiffs timely appealed.          We have
jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1291.
               STANDARD OF REVIEW
    We review a district court’s decision to approve a class
action settlement for abuse of discretion. Briseño v.
Henderson, 998 F.3d 1014, 1022 (9th Cir. 2021). Our
review of a district court’s substantive fairness
determination is narrow: we “rarely overturn” settlements
for substantive reasons but will do so if the agreement
contains “convincing indications” that “self-interest rather
than the class’s interests in fact influenced the outcome of
the negotiations.” Allen v. Bedolla, 787 F.3d 1218, 1223
(9th Cir. 2015) (citation omitted). Given these substantive
limitations, we hold district courts to a stringent procedural
standard. Id. “To survive appellate review, the district court
must show it has explored comprehensively all factors”
relevant to the substantive fairness determination. Dennis v.
Kellogg Co., 697 F.3d 858, 864 (9th Cir. 2012) (citation
omitted).
    We review a district court’s award of attorneys’ fees for
abuse of discretion, and the factual findings supporting such
an award for clear error. Lowery v. Rhapsody Int’l, Inc., 75
F.4th 985, 991 (9th Cir. 2023).
        IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.        13


                       DISCUSSION
   I. The district court did not abuse its discretion in
      approving the class settlement.
       A. Due process concerns require                    judicial
          approval of class action settlements.
    Class action settlements, by their very nature, present
“unique due process concerns for absent class members.”
Hanlon v. Chrysler Corp., 150 F.3d 1011, 1026 (9th Cir.
1998). Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23(e) thus requires
judicial approval of any class action settlement and tasks
district courts with ensuring that the settlement is “fair,
reasonable, and adequate.” Under this standard, district
courts can neither rubberstamp the settlement nor unduly
meddle in the parties’ affairs. Although district courts are
required to give “substantive consideration” to the terms of
a proposed settlement, Staton v. Boeing Co., 327 F.3d 938,
960 (9th Cir. 2003), they are not bound by any “duty to
maximize the settlement fund for class members,” Briseño,
998 F.3d at 1027.
   Before 2018, this circuit instructed courts engaging in
Rule 23(e)’s “fair, reasonable, and adequate” analysis to
consider the following non-exhaustive list of factors:

       [1] the strength of plaintiffs’ case; [2] the
       risk, expense, complexity, and likely duration
       of further litigation; [3] the risk of
       maintaining class action status throughout the
       trial; [4] the amount offered in settlement;
       [5] the extent of discovery completed, and
       the stage of the proceedings; [6] the
       experience and views of counsel; [7] the
       presence of a governmental participant; and
14      IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


       [8] the reaction of the class members to the
       proposed settlement.

Staton, 327 F.3d at 959 (citation omitted) (known as the
“Hanlon,” “Staton,” or “Churchill,” 361 F.3d 566 (9th Cir.
2004), factors).
    In 2018, Rule 23(e) was amended to prescribe its own
multi-factor test. To determine whether a settlement is “fair,
reasonable, and adequate,” courts should consider whether:

       (A) the class representatives and class
          counsel have adequately represented the
          class;
       (B) the proposal was negotiated at arm’s
           length;
       (C) the relief provided for the class is
           adequate, taking into account:
           (i) the costs, risks, and delay of trial and
               appeal;
           (ii) the effectiveness of any proposed
                method of distributing relief to the
                class, including the method of
                processing class-member claims;
           (iii)the terms of any proposed award of
                attorney’s fees, including timing of
                payment; and
           (iv) any agreement required to be
                identified under Rule 23(e)(3); and
         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.    15


       (D) the proposal treats class members
          equitably relative to each other.

Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(e)(2)(A)–(D). The key Hanlon factors are
now baked into the text of Rule 23(e), and the remaining
ones can still be considered for Rule 23(e)(2) analysis. See
McKinney-Drobnis v. Oreshack, 16 F.4th 594, 609 n.4 (9th
Cir. 2021).
    Another concern lurks in the background of every class
action settlement: “class counsel may collude with the
defendants, tacitly reducing the overall settlement in return
for a higher attorney’s fee.” In re Bluetooth Headset Prods.
Liab. Litig., 654 F.3d 935, 946 (9th Cir. 2011) (internal
quotation omitted). In Bluetooth, we identified three “subtle
signs that class counsel have allowed pursuit of their own
self-interests and that of certain class members to infect the
negotiations.” Id. at 946–47. Those are: “(1) when counsel
receives a disproportionate distribution of the settlement;
(2) when the parties negotiate a ‘clear sailing arrangement,’
under which the defendant agrees not to challenge a request
for an agreed-upon attorney’s fee; and (3) when the
agreement contains a ‘kicker’ or ‘reverter’ clause that returns
unawarded fees to the defendant, rather than the class.”
Briseño, 998 F.3d at 1023 (quoting Bluetooth, 654 F.3d at
947) (internal quotations and alterations omitted).
    If these indicia of implicit collusion are present, then a
proposed settlement “must withstand an even higher level of
scrutiny for evidence of collusion or other conflicts of
interest than is ordinarily required under Rule 23(e).”
Bluetooth, 654 F.3d at 946. The district court must
especially “assure itself that the fees awarded in the
agreement were not unreasonably high.” Id. at 947 (internal
citations and alterations omitted).
16        IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


    But before we can review the district court’s settlement
approval order, we first must address a unique wrinkle here:
the district court’s preliminary and final approval orders
were sparse—almost boilerplate—and memorialized little of
the district court’s rationale. Usually, when we cannot
determine the district court’s reasoning, we remand the case
for the court to explain its rationale. But here, we can
reasonably infer the district court’s rationale from the record,
which was unusually extensive with multiple hearings and
supplemental briefs. See, e.g., Hanlon, 150 F.3d at 1023
(“Although the district court’s [class certification] findings
are almost conclusory, the record provides more than
adequate foundation upon which to reach our conclusions.”);
In re Pac. Enters. Secs. Litig., 47 F.3d 373, 377 (9th Cir.
1995) (the district court’s “conclusory statement[s]” could
be supported by the record, which reflected an “extensive
settlement hearing”). 4 From the district court’s exhaustive
questions and statements, as well as the parties’ responses,
at the various hearings, we can reasonably deduce what
factors the district court considered when approving the
settlement.




4
  We are not suggesting that we will approve class action settlements
based on conclusory written orders. We do so in spite of it here. Indeed,
we have vacated settlement approval orders when we could not glean the
district court’s reasoning from the record. See, e.g., Allen, 787 F.3d at
1224 (vacating order because “the record before us does not allow us to
undertake . . . review”); Roes, 1-2 v. SFBSC Mgmt., LLC, 944 F.3d 1035,
1050, n.13 (9th Cir. 2019) (stating that the “record does not permit” the
court to review the order). In contrast here, we can sufficiently discern
the court’s reasoning given the voluminous record and extensive
hearings.
         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.    17


       B. The district court applied the Bluetooth
          heightened standard to review the settlement
          for collusion.
    We now address whether the district followed the
Bluetooth procedural safeguards in approving a class
settlement. The Kirsten plaintiffs correctly point out that the
settlement raises all three red flags of potential collusion
under Bluetooth. 654 F.3d at 947.
    First, Bluetooth warns that a class counsel receiving a
disproportionately large fee award compared to what the
class members received signals potential collusion. See
Briseño, 998 F.3d at 1026 (a “gross disparity in distribution
of funds between class members and their class counsel
raises an urgent red flag”). Here, the parties agreed to
$800,000 in fees, even though the monetary value of the
settlement is at most $950,000.
    Second, the parties agreed to a so-called “clear sailing”
provision in which CPK agreed that it would not challenge
the agreed-upon attorneys’ fees. See Bluetooth, 654 F.3d at
947 (these provisions potentially “enabl[e] a defendant to
pay class counsel excessive fees and costs in exchange for
counsel accepting an unfair settlement on behalf of the
class”).
    And third, if a settlement has a “reverter” or a “kicker”
provision, it could imply collusion. See Bluetooth, 654 F.3d
at 949 (reverter provisions “amplif[y] the danger of collusion
already suggested by a clear sailing provision”). A reverter
in a class action settlement means that any fees not awarded
to class counsel would revert to the defendant’s coffers, and
not to the class members. Here, it means that if the district
court had reduced fees below $800,000, then CPK’s
18      IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


obligation to pay attorneys’ fees would be reduced, with no
additional funds given to the class.
    CPK contends that claims-made settlements do not
contain reverter provisions, and so Bluetooth cannot apply.
In a claims-made settlement, the defendant waits until after
the claims process concludes—i.e., class members have
submitted forms to seek compensation and the claim
administrator validates them—to pay out the amount
claimed by class members. By contrast, in a common-fund
settlement, the defendant establishes a pot of money (i.e., a
“common fund”) before the claims process begins. If a
common-fund settlement includes a reversionary provision,
then the defendant can recoup whatever amount is left in the
fund after paying out class members’ claims. Because a
claims-made settlement only requires CPK to pay out the
amount claimed, the argument goes, no money reverts to
CPK, so there technically can be no reverter provision and
thus no Bluetooth scrutiny.
     That   argument       fundamentally       misunderstands
Bluetooth’s purpose. The reverter provision flagged in
Bluetooth addresses what happens to unawarded attorneys’
fees. 654 F.3d at 947. In a class action settlement, the
defendant has no incentive to differentiate between
(i) payments made to class members and (ii) payments made
to class counsel—and is only concerned about minimizing
the total payment. See, e.g., Staton, 327 F.3d at 964;
Briseño, 998 F.3d at 1025. Put another way, a defendant will
happily pay more to class counsel at the expense of the class
if it means that its total liability—i.e., attorneys’ fees and
payment to the class—will be lower. See Briseño, 998 F.3d
at 1025.
         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.     19


    So when class counsel and the defendant include clear
sailing and reverter provisions in the settlement, they might
be benefiting themselves—at the expense of the class
members. The district court may ultimately award less than
the agreed-upon attorneys’ fees, despite a clear sailing
provision in which the defendant agrees not to challenge it.
But if the court does so, then the unawarded fees would
ideally be distributed to the class, as the defendant is already
willing to pay that amount to secure the settlement. See
Briseño, 998 F.3d at 1027 (“[T]here is no plausible reason
why the class should not benefit from the spillover of
excessive [attorneys’] fees.”). Yet a reverter directs the
unawarded fees to be given back to the defendant instead of
the class members. Bluetooth directs courts to be skeptical
of such settlements because they hint at collusion between
the class counsel and the defendant.
    This fear of collusion applies equally to both claims-
made settlements and common-fund settlements. Whether
money leaves the defendant’s hands is immaterial. In either
case, the purpose of Bluetooth’s heightened scrutiny is to
probe settlements for signals that class counsel may have
colluded with the defendant by selling out the class’s
interests in exchange for higher fees.
    Having established that Bluetooth applies, we are
satisfied that the district court fulfilled its heightened
obligation to ferret out any “evidence of collusion or other
conflicts of interest.” 654 F.3d at 946. As we have
recognized, the presence of all three Bluetooth factors does
not trigger a domino effect that makes a settlement per se
collusive. See Kim v. Allison, 8 F.4th 1170, 1180 (9th Cir.
2021) (noting that the presence of all three factors is not a
“death knell”). Bluetooth is merely a procedural safeguard
to ensure that district courts scrutinize class settlements for
20       IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


collusion that may harm class members. It does not set
crusty, rigid rules that mandate a substantive result.
    Here, the district court gave the settlement provisions a
hard look under the Bluetooth factors. It probed the parties’
disputes over whether CPK’s decision to negotiate with the
consolidated plaintiffs amounted to a “reverse auction,”
whether the Kirsten plaintiffs’ counsel’s “effort to become
class counsel” was improper, and whether a “claims-made
settlement” was “inherently collusive.” It questioned Mr.
Friedman, the parties’ private mediator, on the parties’ “term
sheets” and “settlement proffer[s],” and how many
negotiation sessions the parties conducted. In its preliminary
approval order, it made an explicit finding that the settlement
was “non-collusive.” On this record, we cannot say that the
district court ignored the Bluetooth factors or abused its
discretion.
       C. The district court did not abuse its discretion
          in finding the settlement fair, reasonable, and
          adequate.
    We next substantively review the class settlement and
hold that the district court did not abuse its discretion in
finding it fair, reasonable, and adequate. The district court
properly evaluated the settlement under the Rule 23(e)(2)
factors as well as the judicially-crafted Hanlon factors.
    The district court found the relief for the class adequate
after considering a host of concerns. Fed. R. Civ. P.
23(e)(2)(C) (requiring the settlement be “adequate” for the
class and listing factors to consider). For example, the
district court identified the key harm to the class (the
disclosure of sensitive personal information) and ensured
that class members were compensated for it. And the
settlement offers real benefits to class members: credit
         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.    21


monitoring services for two years, up to $1,000 for ordinary
expenses and lost time, and up to $5,000 for monetary loss
from identity theft. The district court also considered the
California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) claims—which
potentially conferred statutory damages to the California
subclass—in assessing the adequacy of the settlement.
    On appeal, the Kirsten plaintiffs contend that they could
have notched a more favorable settlement on behalf of the
class. They maintain, for example, that the CCPA claims are
possibly worth over $77 million in statutory damages, and
that the settlement released them for only a small sliver of
that amount. But the accuracy of that valuation is tenuous at
best. The Kirsten plaintiffs provide no legal authority for
their valuation of the CCPA claims and have not rebutted
CPK’s potential legal defenses against them.
     The district court also weighed the “significant risks,
expense, and/or uncertainty” that the class would face in
litigation. Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(e)(2)(C)(i) (listing “the costs,
risks, and delay of trial and appeal” as a factor in assessing
adequacy). For instance, Article III standing can be an uphill
battle for data-breach plaintiffs, who must allege a “concrete
harm,” not just an “asserted risk of future harm.”
TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, 594 U.S. 413, 437 (2021).
Here, the class’s standing rested on questionable footing—
there is no evidence that any CPK employee’s compromised
data was misused, and the hacker group is apparently known
for not releasing the information to the dark web once it
receives its ransom payment.
    Lastly, we underscore that courts do not have a duty to
maximize settlement value for class members. Briseño, 998
F.3d at 1026. Rather, our inquiry is much more modest and
limited to ensuring that the class settlement is fair,
22        IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


reasonable, and adequate. Perhaps the Kirsten plaintiffs’
counsel could have obtained a better deal if they had litigated
the case further. But reasonable disagreements on case
strategy are not evidence of an unfair deal or collusion. An
early settlement may often be beneficial for the class, as it
reduces attorneys’ fees, preserves value for the class, and
offers immediate compensation for injured class members. 5
    The most problematic part of the class settlement is its
claims-made nature. As evidenced by the 1.8% claims rate
here, redemption rates are typically very low because most
class members do not bother jumping through the hoops to
submit a claim. See, e.g., Roes, 1–2, 944 F.3d at 1053;
Briseño, 998 F.3d at 1026. As a result, claims-made
settlements often allow defendants to settle on the cheap.
But we have never held that claims-made settlements are per
se inadequate under Rule 23(e). And here, the settlement
does offer real benefits—not worthless coupons or
imaginary injunctive relief—to the people who submitted
claims. We cannot say that the district court abused its
discretion in finding the settlement fair, reasonable, and
adequate. 6

5
  The court also addressed other factors under Rule 23(e) and Hanlon.
For example, it found that the proposal was negotiated at arm’s length.
Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(e)(2)(B). To be sure, the presence of a mediator is not
dispositive, as mediation has become a cottage industry with repeat
players. See, e.g., Roes, 1–2, 944 F.3d at 1050 n.13. But here, the district
court assured itself that Mr. Friedman’s mediation of the parties’
settlement negotiations was more than a pro forma exercise.
6
 Both the majority and dissent agree that the lack of a detailed written
order made appellate review more difficult. While there were extensive
hearings, off-the-cuff oral statements often lack clarity and are subject to
differing interpretations. For example, the dissent believes the court at
           IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.                23


    II. We reverse and remand the approval of excessive
        attorneys’ fees.
     Finally, we address the district court’s fee award of
almost $800,000. Because the settlement agreement was not
conditioned on attorneys’ fees, we can vacate the fee award
without undoing the settlement approval, as the settlement
still passes muster under Rule 23(e). See Bluetooth, 654 F.3d
at 945; McKinney-Drobnis, 16 F.4th at 606.
    Courts may only award “reasonable” attorneys’ fees.
Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(h). The “touchstone” for that analysis is
“the benefit to the class”—class counsel can only reap
rewards if they have delivered results for class members.
Lowery, 75 F.4th at 988. This circuit has signed off on two
methods for determining reasonable attorneys’ fees in class
actions: the “lodestar” method and the “percentage-of-
recovery” method. In re Hyundai & Kia Fuel Econ. Litig.,
926 F.3d 539, 570 (9th Cir. 2019) (en banc). Under the
lodestar method, the court multiplies the number of hours
reasonably spent on the case by a reasonable hourly rate. Id.
Under the percentage-of-recovery method, the court simply

the preliminary approval hearing indicated that it likely would not
approve a settlement worth less than $3 million. Dissent at 43. But we
do not believe that court was making such a categorical statement when
it said “And if they end up with 3.2 million, I’d probably look very
favorably, or even 2.5. I don’t know. Looking very favorably.” Another
complicating factor is that a court may not tick off every single factor or
reason it considered during an oral hearing. But based on our review of
the record, we believe the court sufficiently probed and analyzed the key
points, such as the settlement’s benefit to the class and the attorneys’ fees
relative to that benefit. As explained, the court first flagged the
possibility of an outsized fee amount if redemption rates turned out to be
low but then ignored this problem when the redemption percentage was
indeed low. As explained below, we thus reverse and remand on the fees
amount.
24       IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


awards counsel with a percentage of the recovery claimed by
the class—the typical benchmark is 25%. Id. Under both
methods, certain factors, like “the quality of representation,
the benefit obtained for the class, the complexity and novelty
of the issues presented, and the risk of nonpayment,” may
favor upward or downward adjustment. Bluetooth, 654 F.3d
at 942.
    Unlike the district court’s settlement approval, we cannot
infer the district court’s rationale for its fee award from the
record. At the November 2022 hearing, the district court
raised “tremendous concern[s]” about the reasonableness of
the consolidated plaintiffs’ $800,000 fee request. First, it
questioned the lodestar of $687,681. Although the district
court noted that the blended hourly rate of $670 seemed
reasonable, it asked about the sheer “number of attorneys
allegedly making appearances” in the case. Second, the
district court appeared disinclined to award fees “clearly
above the benchmark of 25%” percentage-of-recovery.
     Yet its final award did just that—even though the
attorneys’ fees constitute around 45% of the settlement value
to the class. In a short, two-paragraph order, the district court
signed off on a positive multiplier to counsel’s lodestar, even
though the fees were significantly over the 25% percentage-
of-recovery benchmark. The court failed to “provide an
adequate explanation” for the fees, so we must reverse and
remand. Lowery, 75 F.4th at 992 (citing Stanger v. China
Elec. Motor, Inc., 812 F.3d 734, 739 (9th Cir. 2016)).
    Even apart from its failure to provide an explanation, the
district court erred by approving fees that appear excessive
of settlement value. To assess the reasonableness of fees, the
district court must first independently “calculate the class
action settlement’s benefit to the class members.” Id. In a
          IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.              25


claims-made settlement, that obligation requires the district
court to wait until at least after the claims deadline to award
attorneys’ fees. When the claims validation process is brief
or where the settlement presents a significant risk of
fraudulent or invalid claims (e.g., settlements offering
potentially lucrative compensation), that may even require
the district court to wait until after the claims validation
process has concluded.
    Here, the district court appeared to accept the
consolidated plaintiffs’ assertion that the class’s claims were
worth $1.16 million, despite the substantial likelihood that
many of these claims would be thrown out post-validation
for exceeding the caps or failing to provide supporting
documentation. As noted earlier, that $1.16 figure is facially
invalid based on the settlement agreement, which caps
ordinary expense claims at $1,000. As the consolidated
plaintiffs conceded at oral argument, the class’s 176 ordinary
expense claims could, at most, theoretically be $176,000.
Yet the consolidated plaintiffs claimed that ordinary
expenses would be $384,134.77. So, at most, the monetary
value of the class’s claims is around $950,000, not $1.16
million. And that amount may be far less after validation. A
fee award of $800,000 would then constitute at most around
45% of settlement value, a significant departure from our
25% benchmark. 7


7
  Specifically, the $800,000 fee award is around 45% of $1.75 million,
which is made up of $950,000 in the class’s claims and $800,000 in fees.
District courts have discretion to include notice and administration costs
in their calculation of settlement value under the percentage-of-recovery
method, but that determination should be driven by reasonableness. See
In re Online DVD-Rental Antitrust Litig., 779 F.3d 934, 953 (9th Cir.
26         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


    On remand, the district should scrutinize the
reasonableness of the consolidated plaintiffs’ lodestar. It
should then calculate the actual value of the settlement to the
class and perform a crosscheck of the lodestar against the
25% percentage-of-recovery benchmark to ensure that fees
are reasonable. Based on the record before us, that method
will likely favor downward adjustment.
                           CONCLUSION
    We AFFIRM the district court’s settlement approval but
REVERSE the attorneys’ fee award. We REMAND for the
district court to determine the settlement’s actual value to
class members and award reasonable and proportionate
attorneys’ fees, consistent with this opinion.


COLLINS, Circuit Judge, concurring in the judgment in part
and dissenting in part:

    I concur in the judgment to the extent that the majority
reverses and remands the district court’s approval of the
attorney’s fee award. I respectfully dissent, however, from
the majority’s decision to affirm the approval of the
underlying settlement in this case.
   Under our precedents and Federal Rule of Civil
Procedure 23(e), district courts must closely scrutinize the
substantive fairness of class action settlement proposals. As
we have recognized, “‘settlement class actions present

2015). So, for example, it may not make sense to include notice and
administration costs if they approach or exceed the value of the monetary
and injunctive relief benefits to the class. Here, even if the district court
included the $172,570 in notice costs in its calculations, the $800,000
fee award would still constitute around 41.5% of settlement value.
        IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.    27


unique due process concerns for absent class members,’ and
the district court has a fiduciary duty to look after the
interests of those absent class members.” Allen v. Bedolla,
787 F.3d 1218, 1223 (9th Cir. 2015) (citation omitted).
Accordingly, a district court “may approve” a class action
settlement “only on finding that it is fair, reasonable, and
adequate.” FED. R. CIV. P. 23(e)(2). “To survive appellate
review, the district court must show it has explored
comprehensively all factors, and must give a reasoned
response to all non-frivolous objections.” Allen, 787 F.3d at
1223–24 (citation omitted).
    This duty is even more stringent, we have held, “when a
settlement is negotiated absent class certification.” Allen,
787 F.3d at 1224. “Specifically, such settlement agreements
must withstand an even higher level of scrutiny for evidence
of collusion or other conflicts of interest than is ordinarily
required under Rule 23(e) before securing the court’s
approval as fair.” Roes, 1–2 v. SFBSC Mgmt., LLC, 944 F.3d
1035, 1048–49 (9th Cir. 2019) (simplified). This higher
scrutiny is required in order “to ensure that class
representatives and their counsel do not secure a
disproportionate benefit at the expense of the unnamed
plaintiffs.” Id. at 1049 (simplified). “The subtle signs of
collusion for which we require district courts to look,” id.
(simplified), are drawn from our decision in In re Bluetooth
Headset Products Liability Litigation, 654 F.3d 935, 947
(9th Cir. 2011). These “Bluetooth factors” include the
following danger signs: “(1) when counsel receive a
disproportionate distribution of the settlement; (2) when the
parties negotiate a clear sailing arrangement (i.e., an
arrangement where defendant will not object to a certain fee
request by class counsel); and (3) when the parties create a
reverter that returns unclaimed funds to the defendant.”
28       IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


Allen, 787 F.3d at 1224 (simplified). Although the presence
of these factors “is not a death knell” for a settlement, “when
they exist, they require the district court to examine them”
and “develop the record to support its final approval
decision.” Kim v. Allison, 8 F.4th 1170, 1180 (9th Cir. 2021)
(simplified).
    Here, in approving the final settlement proposal before
class certification, the district court failed to follow these
procedural requirements. It provided little explanation as to
why it approved this settlement and instead issued a series of
perfunctory orders, despite the fact that, inter alia, (1) the
final settlement triggers every Bluetooth factor; (2) the
settlement’s final value ended up being nearly a fourth of the
estimated “conservative” value presented at the preliminary
approval hearing; and (3) the settlement’s proposed
attorney’s fees award comprises nearly 46% of the entire
settlement. The district court’s failure to adequately
examine any of these issues compels reversal and remand.
Because the majority nonetheless upholds the district court’s
approval of the settlement, I respectfully dissent.
                               I
                               A
    In September 2021, California Pizza Kitchen (“CPK”), a
national restaurant chain, suffered a data breach that exposed
the names, Social Security numbers, dates of birth, and other
personal identifying information of over 100,000 current and
former employees. On November 15, 2021, CPK, after
investigating the breach, sent notification letters to 103,767
individuals whose personal information may have been
compromised as a result of the breach.
          IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.                29


    Soon thereafter, five putative class actions were filed in
the United States District Court for the Central District of
California, seeking monetary and equitable relief for a
nationwide class of persons whose personal identifying
information was accessed by the breach. 1 The last of these
suits was filed on December 10, 2021 by plaintiffs Aviva
Kirsten and Jeremy Pittman (the “Kirsten Plaintiffs”), who
are the Appellants in this case. In contrast to the complaints
of the first four plaintiff groups (the “Settling Plaintiffs”), the
Kirsten Plaintiffs’ complaint explicitly asserted a claim
under the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”). See
CAL. CIV. CODE § 1798.100 et seq. That statute, under
certain conditions, allows for statutory damages between
$100 and $750 for California residents whose personal
identifying information was “subject to an unauthorized
access and exfiltration, theft, or disclosure as a result of” a
business’s failure to maintain digital security procedures. Id.
§ 1798.150(a)(1)(A); see also id. § 1798.140(i) (generally
defining a “consumer” covered by the CCPA as “a natural
person who is a California resident”). The Kirsten Plaintiffs’
operative complaint stated that, once the ongoing statutory
advance-notice process was completed, the complaint would
be amended to assert a formal request for CCPA statutory
damages.
    Two days before the complaint in Kirsten was filed, the
Settling Plaintiffs agreed to coordinate their efforts. After

1
 Gilleo, et al. v. California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., et al., No. 8:21-cv-01928
(C.D. Cal. Nov. 23, 2021); Morales v. California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., No.
8:21-cv-01988 (C.D. Cal. Dec. 2, 2021); Wallace, et al. v. California
Pizza Kitchen, Inc., No. 8:21-cv-01970 (C.D. Cal. Dec. 2, 2021); Rigas,
et al. v. California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., No. 8:21-cv-02004 (C.D. Cal.
Dec. 7, 2021); and Kirsten, et al. v. California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., No.
2:21-cv-09578 (C.D. Cal. Dec. 10, 2021).
30       IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


initiating their suit, the Kirsten Plaintiffs reached out to the
Settling Plaintiffs “to meet and confer about streamlining
efforts and potentially coming to consensus on leadership.”
However, these attempts to reach consensus failed.
    Attempts to consolidate all five cases also failed. On
January 24, 2022, the Kirsten Plaintiffs drafted and
circulated a stipulation to consolidate the five cases and
establish a briefing schedule for the appointment of lead
class counsel. Fifteen days later, the Settling Plaintiffs
circulated their own version of the stipulation, and the
Kirsten Plaintiffs sent back redlines of the draft stipulation,
which, inter alia, proposed a shorter briefing schedule for
contested leadership motions. The next day, the Settling
Plaintiffs responded with an edited draft stipulation rejecting
the Kirsten Plaintiffs’ proposed leadership motion schedule.
After five days, the Settling Plaintiffs, without hearing back
from the Kirsten Plaintiffs, filed a stipulation and a proposed
order consolidating the four other cases. In a footnote, the
stipulation noted the existence of the Kirsten litigation,
stating that “the parties to this stipulation were unable to
obtain agreement to this stipulation from plaintiffs in that
action.” Without comment, the district court then entered the
proposed order consolidating the four cases. The deadline
for lead counsel motions was set for March 17, 2022.
                               B
    Meanwhile, the Settling Plaintiffs had begun discussing
settlement with CPK. After a mandatory pre-motion
conference with CPK’s counsel concerning CPK’s
anticipated motion to dismiss, counsel in the Wallace case
had “substantial questions in [his] mind about the viability
of Plaintiffs’ claims in this litigation.” He subsequently
drafted a settlement proposal term sheet, which he first
        IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.   31


circulated to his co-counsel and then, on January 26, 2022,
to CPK’s counsel. The term sheet proposed a claims-made
settlement and included a demand for compensation for
statutory claims under the CCPA.
    On February 9, 2022, the Kirsten Plaintiffs and CPK
conferred about scheduling in the Kirsten litigation. After
this meeting, CPK’s counsel sent an email to the Kirsten
Plaintiffs’ counsel asking, “Would you consider for example
a claims made style settlement? Do you have a proposed
term sheet?” The Kirsten Plaintiffs responded that the
parties would need to exchange information and set a
mediation before engaging in any settlement talks.
    Following consolidation, the Settling Plaintiffs and CPK
began settlement talks in earnest. The parties engaged in
informal discovery regarding CPK’s insurance coverage and
the data breach. The parties selected a mediator and engaged
in their first mediation session, via Zoom, on March 10,
2022. This mediation session was not fully successful, but
the parties agreed to meet again on March 15 for another
mediation session on Zoom.
    Four days later, on March 14, 2022, CPK’s counsel and
the Kirsten Plaintiffs’ counsel conferred pursuant to Federal
Rule of Civil Procedure 26(f). During that conference, the
Kirsten Plaintiffs asked CPK whether the company was
negotiating with any other plaintiffs’ counsel and about the
status of any such negotiations. Although there is some
dispute over what precisely was said on this call, it is
undisputed that CPK did not mention its ongoing mediation
with the Settling Plaintiffs.
    The next day, on March 15, 2022, the Settling Plaintiffs
and CPK held their second mediation session, where they
ultimately came to agreement on the material terms of
32       IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


settlement, including an award of attorney’s fees. On March
16, 2022, they informed the district judge’s courtroom
deputy clerk that they had reached a settlement in principle,
see C.D. CAL. LOC. CIV. R. 16-15.7, and they also filed a
stipulation requesting that the district court stay the
consolidated action pending approval of the proposed
settlement. Motions for appointment of lead counsel would
have been due the next day.
    On March 17, 2022, the Kirsten Plaintiffs filed a motion
to have their counsel appointed lead counsel, together with
an opposition to the settling parties’ request for a stay.
Nonetheless, the district court promptly granted the
requested stay of proceedings, pending the filing and
disposition of a motion for preliminary approval of the
settlement.
    On April 22, 2022, the district court held a hearing
concerning the Kirsten Plaintiffs’ lead counsel motion. The
court stated that “[i]t seems just odd on my part that I
wouldn’t consolidate all five cases” and wondered out loud
why it had not done so, but the court ultimately decided “to
leave the case[s] divided” and to hold the lead counsel
motion in abeyance while the district court evaluated the
Settling Plaintiffs’ motion for preliminary approval. The
Settling Plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary approval on
May 2, 2022, and the court subsequently scheduled a hearing
on the motion for June 29, 2022.
                               C
    Before summarizing the preliminary approval hearing, I
will first describe (1) the key terms of the proposed class
settlement between the Settling Plaintiffs and CPK; and
(2) the Kirsten Plaintiffs’ written objections to the settlement
prior to the preliminary approval hearing.
        IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.    33


                              1
    Under the terms of the proposed settlement, the Settling
Plaintiffs agreed that “every Settlement Class member
(except those who timely opt out)” would “fully and finally
release CPK . . . from any and all claims or causes of action,
whether known or unknown, that concern, refer or relate to
the Data Security Incident announced by CPK on or about
November 15, 2021, and all other claims arising out of the
Data Security Incident announced by CPK on or about
November 21, 2021, that were asserted, or that could have
been asserted, in the Consolidated Cases.” In return, CPK
agreed to a claims-made settlement, i.e., one in which only
those class members who submitted timely, valid claims
could receive any payment. That claims-made settlement
would provide the following relief:

       •   Up to $1,000 per claimant for “out-of-
           pocket expenses and lost time” incurred
           as a result of the data breach.
       •   Up to $5,000 per claimant for
           “extraordinary losses,” i.e., “proven
           monetary loss as a result of actual identity
           theft.”
       •   A $100 “statutory damages award” for
           “California     Settlement      Subclass
           members,” which could be combined
           with a claim for out-of-pocket expenses,
           but “subject to the $1,000 cap on
           compensation for ordinary losses and lost
           time.”
       •   “24 months of 3[-]bureau credit
           monitoring to Settlement Class members
34      IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


           who enroll,” which the Settling Plaintiffs
           valued at $360 per claimant.

    In the settlement, CPK also agreed to a clear-sailing
provision whereby it “agree[d] not to object to [the Settling]
Plaintiffs’ request for combined attorneys’ fees and costs to”
their counsel “in an amount not to exceed a total of $800,000,
inclusive of costs.” CPK further agreed to “maintain certain
recently implemented business practices and remedial
measures . . . for a period of three (3) years” to safeguard
against future data breaches.
    Under the agreement, class members would receive
notice of the settlement primarily through notices sent to the
respective postal addresses or email addresses “associated
with” each class member. There would also be a website and
toll-free number for any inquiries regarding the settlement.
The agreement provided for a specified class action
settlement administrator to administer the claims, including
providing notice to class members, with CPK being
responsible for all costs of the settlement administration.
                              2
    In their written opposition to the Settling Plaintiffs’
motion for preliminary approval, the Kirsten Plaintiffs raised
six objections to the proposed settlement.
    First, the Kirsten Plaintiffs asserted that because the
settlement is claims-based and allows any unclaimed funds
to remain with CPK, the settlement is functionally
reversionary, thereby presenting one of the “subtle signs”
this court has identified of potential collusion between class
counsel and defendant’s counsel. Allen, 787 F.3d at 1224.
The Kirsten Plaintiffs argued that “[r]eversionary clauses are
highly disfavored in the Ninth Circuit,” because they
          IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.              35


promote “perverse incentives” for “defendants to ensure as
low a claims rate as possible” and because they “can benefit
both defendants and class counsel, and thus raise the specter
of their collusion, by (1) reducing the actual amount
defendants are on the hook for . . . ; and (2) giving counsel
an inflated common-fund value against which to base a fee
motion.” 2 Roes, 1–2, 944 F.3d at 1058–59 (simplified).
    Second, the Kirsten Plaintiffs objected to the settlement’s
inclusion of a “clear sailing agreement,” that is, a provision
that CPK would “not object to an amount of $800,000 paid
in attorney fees.” In doing so, the Kirsten Plaintiffs relied
on caselaw holding that “clear sailing agreements on
attorney’s fees are important warning signs of collusion
because the very existence of a clear sailing provision
increases the likelihood that class counsel will have
bargained away something of value to the class.” Roes, 1–
2, 944 F.3d at 1051 (simplified).
    Third, the Kirsten Plaintiffs contended that CPK’s
potential liability was $77 million, but that the proposed
settlement’s ceiling for liability was approximately $38
million with “[t]he only guaranteed payment under the
[s]ettlement [being] the $800,000 in attorney fees” to the
Settling Plaintiffs’ counsel. As a result, the Kirsten Plaintiffs
argued, “[t]he amount offered in [the] [s]ettlement is unfair,
unreasonable and inadequate.” The Kirsten Plaintiffs also
asserted that, because “[t]he CCPA claim is arguably the


2
  The settlement here technically is not “reversionary” because it did not
establish a common fund from which any unclaimed funds would revert
to CPK. However, as the majority correctly recognizes, there is no
functional difference between a formal reversion and a purely claims-
made settlement structure, as both leave any unclaimed funds with the
defendant. See Opin. at 18–19.
36      IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


most valuable claim in the litigation against CPK” and
“[n]one of the Settling Plaintiffs asserted a CCPA claim,” the
Settling Plaintiffs were “not adequate to negotiate and
release the CCPA claims.” According to the Kirsten
Plaintiffs, CPK “intentionally chose the weakest opponents
in this litigation” with which to “negotiate . . . , while
excluding the one [plaintiff group] that did assert CCPA
claims,” i.e., the Kirsten Plaintiffs, “from the mediation.”
    Fourth, the Kirsten Plaintiffs criticized the settlement’s
one-time mail/e-mail notice plan as inadequate. In their
view, the notice plan should also have included “(1) a
reminder notice program, (2) a targeted social media/internet
advertising campaign, and (3) a publication of the notice
through CPK’s employee intranet or other internal employee
communication system.”          According to the Kirsten
Plaintiffs, option (3) would have been free, and the other two
would have “cost very little.”
    Fifth, the Kirsten Plaintiffs argued that the settlement’s
release was overbroad because it extended to any claims that
“relate to” the data breach in question.
    Sixth, the Kirsten Plaintiffs also contended that
additional circumstances surrounding the settlement talks
underscored the potentially collusive nature of the
settlement. The Kirsten Plaintiffs highlighted the facts that
(1) they were not included in the stipulation for
consolidation; and (2) CPK had avoided informing them of
the ongoing settlement negotiations with the Settling
Plaintiffs. The Kirsten Plaintiffs also observed that the
settlement was reached the day before motions for the
appointment of lead counsel would have been due and that
they had previously rejected any claims-made settlement
structure in their discussions with CPK. The Kirsten
         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.    37


Plaintiffs further argued that the mere fact that a mediator
had presided over the settlement negotiations was no
guarantee of its compliance with Rule 23(e)(2).
                               D
    At the preliminary approval hearing held on June 29,
2022, the mediator took the stand and answered questions
from the court. The district court stated that, based on the
Settling Plaintiffs’ representations, “the settlement ha[d] a
conservative value [of] over $3.7 million,” and the $800,000
in attorney’s fees amounted to “approximately 21 percent of
the value of the settlement.” Nonetheless, the district court
discerned “some due process issues with” the fact that the
settlement would resolve the claims in the Kirsten litigation,
despite the Kirsten Plaintiffs’ lack of involvement in the
mediation. Moreover, the district court stated that it had “a
tremendous concern about these fees,” due to the
“reversionary” nature of the settlement.
    After returning from a recess, the district court
announced that it would preliminarily find that the
settlement was “adequate, fair, and reasonable.” The court
then expressly addressed only one of the Kirsten Plaintiffs’
objections, namely, the claims-made structure of the
settlement. The district court declined to approve the
$800,000 in attorney’s fees at that time, explaining that it
would wait to see how many claims were made in order to
“incentivize[]” the Settling Plaintiffs’ counsel “to get as
much money for this class” during the claims process. The
court indicated that it would “probably” approve the
requested attorney’s fees if the total settlement value
amounted to approximately $3.2 million “or even” $2.5
million. The district court offered no comment on any of the
Kirsten Plaintiffs’ other written objections, nor did the court
38       IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


set forth on the record any express findings justifying its
conclusions.
     On June 30, 2022, the district court issued a written order
preliminarily approving the settlement and finding the
settlement “to be fair, reasonable, and adequate, and the
result of vigilant, informed, non-collusive arms’-length
negotiations overseen by an experienced and neutral
mediator.” The court stated, without further explanation,
that it “considered . . . the briefs and arguments of counsel.”
As the majority puts it, “the district court’s preliminary . . .
order[] w[as] sparse—almost boilerplate and memorialized
little of the district court’s rationale.” See Opin. at 16.
                               E
    Following the preliminary approval of the settlement, the
Settling Plaintiffs and the class administrator sent out
103,380 direct postcard notices and 4,349 email notices to
potential class members. Thereafter, a follow-up email
notice was sent to more than 60,500 class members. There
was also a targeted social media campaign on Facebook,
Instagram, and LinkedIn. Despite these efforts, which went
beyond the minimum notice provisions to which the Kirsten
Plaintiffs had objected, the class administrator ultimately
received only 1,828 unvalidated claims for a claims rate of
less than 1.8%.
    On October 6, 2022, the Settling Plaintiffs filed their
motion for final approval of the settlement. The Kirsten
Plaintiffs objected, essentially re-raising the same concerns
they had voiced prior to the preliminary approval hearing.
They also pointed out that, after the preliminary approval
hearing, their CCPA claims had survived both a motion to
          IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.                39


dismiss and a motion for reconsideration. 3 The Kirsten
Plaintiffs further argued that the low claims rate highlighted
that CPK would be “securing a full release” from the class
“for a very low dollar cost” and that the settlement’s “notice
scheme was woefully inadequate.”
    At the final approval hearing on November 7, 2022, the
Settling Plaintiffs confirmed that the claims rate was
approximately 1.8%, and they asserted that the final
settlement value, prior to claim validation, was $1,161,149. 4
According to the Settling Plaintiffs, the claims made were as
follows:

         •    176 claims for ordinary expenses,
              totaling $384,134.77;
         •    979 claims for lost time, totaling
              $50,320.00;
         •    45 claims for extraordinary losses,
              totaling $191,354.50;
         •    803 claims for CCPA statutory damages,
              totaling $80,300.00; and
         •    1,264 claims for credit monitoring,
              totaling $455,040.00.

    The court then asked the Kirsten Plaintiffs to repeat their
objections on the record. The Kirsten Plaintiffs recounted


3
 CPK filed motions to dismiss only in the Kirsten case and not in the
consolidated cases.
4
  As the majority agrees, however, counsel’s representation as to this
“final settlement value” was flatly inaccurate: the settlement’s final value
is closer to $950,000. See Opin. at 11; see infra Section II.A.
40        IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


that the settlement includes a clear-sailing provision; that the
settlement was reversionary and had ultimately gotten
“nowhere near the suggested 3 million or in excess of that”;
and that, consequently, the Settling Plaintiffs’ counsel were
receiving “a disproportionate amount of the settlement”—
approximately 40%—in attorney’s fees. The Kirsten
Plaintiffs also pointed out that the Settling Plaintiffs had not
undergone any motions practice at all, which, in the Kirsten
Plaintiffs’ view, demonstrated that the Settling Plaintiffs
“gave up . . . leverage” by settling with CPK.
    The district court responded that it had already “gone
through the collusion arguments” and “rejected those.” With
respect to the settlement’s final value at $1.16 million, the
court merely stated that it could not “recall why” it had
earlier expected the settlement to amount to $3 million. The
district court also noted its “tremendous concern over these
attorney’s fees” of up to $800,000. At the conclusion of the
hearing, the district court requested additional briefing on
the issue of attorney’s fees. The district court did not discuss
the remainder of the Kirsten Plaintiffs’ objections, nor did it
set forth on the record any of its findings.
    The district court received the requested briefing
concerning the attorney’s fees and held another hearing on
December 5, 2022. 5 Thereafter, the district court on
February 22, 2023 approved the settlement and awarded the
maximum $800,000 in attorney’s fees to the Settling
Plaintiff’s counsel.     The court’s order contains no
explanation for its ruling and merely states that the court
“reviewed . . . any objections filed with or presented to the

5
  Oddly enough, there does not appear to be any transcript of the
December 5, 2022 hearing in the record of the district court or of this
court.
         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.    41


Court” and the “oral argument of counsel and any objectors
who appeared.” Like the preliminary approval order, as the
majority puts it, “the district court’s . . . final approval
order[]      w[as]     sparse—almost        boilerplate—and
memorialized little of the district court’s rationale.” See
Opin. at 16.
                               II
    Given these details in the record, it is clear that the
district court contravened its duty to explain why the
settlement complied with Rule 23(e). Accordingly, the
settlement approval should be vacated, and the case should
be remanded.
                               A
    “To survive appellate review, the district court must
show it has explored comprehensively all factors, and must
give a reasoned response to all non-frivolous objections.”
Allen, 787 F.3d at 1223–24 (emphasis added) (simplified).
And because, as the majority correctly recognizes, the
settlement has a claims-made structure that resulted in a
claims rate of less than two percent, provides attorney’s fees
equivalent to 84% of the settlement’s benefit to the class, and
contains a clear-sailing provision for these fees, the
settlement here “raises all three red flags of potential
collusion under” our caselaw. See Opin. at 17. The district
court therefore had a “heightened obligation” to scrutinize
the settlement for “any evidence of collusion or other
conflicts of interest.” See Opin. at 19 (simplified).
     The district court did not abide by this mandate. To
begin with, the district court committed an obvious and
critical error by assuming that the settlement was valued at
$1.16 million when in fact it was worth no more than
42       IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


$950,000. See Opin. at 11 (referring to this as a “glaring
error . . . apparent on [the settlement’s] face”). Because of
the $1,000 cap on per-claimant out-of-pocket expenses, the
176 claimants who sought $384,134.77 are entitled, at most,
to $176,000. Yet the district court relied on a patently
incorrect valuation of the settlement in determining whether
the attorney’s fees were disproportionate to the settlement’s
benefit to the class. This error is starker still because, as
recounted above, the district court’s chief concern at the
settlement approval hearings was the size of the settlement
vis-à-vis the attorney’s fees award. It cannot be inferred that
the district court “explored comprehensively all factors,”
Allen, 787 F.3d at 1223–24 (simplified), when the district
court—contrary to its asserted concern—failed to notice an
obvious issue with the valuation of the settlement and thus
failed to notice that the attorney’s fees are equivalent to 84%
of the final settlement’s benefit to the class. See Kim, 8 F.4th
at 1180 (reversing the district court in part for relying on an
“inflated settlement value” in approving a class action
settlement).
    Moreover, the record is bereft of any discussion of Rule
23(e)’s factors and many of the Kirsten Plaintiffs’ detailed
objections. In particular, the district court did not respond to
the Kirsten Plaintiffs’ objection to the settlement’s clear-
sailing provision. “[W]hen confronted with a clear sailing
provision”—particularly when the fee request is large vis-à-
vis the benefits to the class—“the district court ha[d] a
heightened duty to peer into the provision and scrutinize
closely the relationship between attorney’s fees and benefit
to the class.” In re Bluetooth, 654 F.3d at 948. The district
court, as I have explained, failed to do this. Moreover, the
district court nowhere addressed the Kirsten Plaintiffs’
objections that the Settling Plaintiffs had engaged in no
         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.     43


motions practice or formal discovery, that the Kirsten
Plaintiffs had been excluded from consolidation and
settlement talks, that the settlement’s release clause was
arguably overbroad, and that the methods by which the
Settling Plaintiffs and the claims administrator reached out
to potential class members were assertedly inadequate. At
best, the district court acknowledged that it had heard these
objections. “In the pre-certification context,” however, “the
district court must do more than acknowledge that warning-
sign provisions exist and then conclude that they are not
dispositive without further apparent scrutiny.” McKinney-
Drobnis v. Oreshack, 16 F.4th 594, 611 (9th Cir. 2021). The
district court’s silence on the record and in its orders was in
direct contravention of our precedent.
    Furthermore, what little the district court did state on the
record was internally contradictory, making the court’s
reasoning all the more confounding and opaque. At the
preliminary approval hearing, the district court expressed
considerable concern about the potential that the settlement’s
value would end up being much less than $3 million,
particularly given that the claims-made nature of the
settlement arguably rendered it “reversionary” in nature. In
one of its few substantive comments, the court explained that
in “incentiviz[ing]” the Settling Plaintiffs’ counsel “to get as
much money for this class” during the claims process, the
court sought to address its discomfort about “not knowing
the amount of the claims” that would ultimately be made.
Yet, at the final hearing, the district court heard that the
settlement’s final value was no more than $1.16 million, with
a claims rate of less than two percent, and that therefore the
court’s hope that the Settling Plaintiffs’ counsel would
achieve the previously hypothesized claims rate had failed.
Nonetheless, the district court approved the settlement. The
44       IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


district court never explained in its written orders or on the
record why it did so, in spite of its prior stated concerns about
the claims-made nature of the settlement and the possibility
of a low claims rate.
    This failure to properly address the low claims rate was
independently an abuse of discretion. In Allen, we vacated
and remanded a settlement because, after “class counsel said
that he would consider it a success if even 10% or 15% of
the class made claims,” the actual “claims rate was less than
8%,” and “the record g[ave] no assurance” that the district
court made any further inquiry, in light of that development,
“into why the parties had negotiated such a disproportionate
distribution between fees and relief.” 787 F.3d at 1224 n.4.
(simplified). Likewise, in Roes, 1–2, we held that, “in light
of the” low claims rate of a settlement with reversionary
features, the district court “should have done more to
investigate whether [the settlement] was really worth $1
million and was not unfairly inflating attorneys’ fees.” 944
F.3d at 1054–55. The low claims rate here should have
caused the district court to investigate further and make clear
findings, not resort to a perfunctory order.
    Finally, the narrow gap between the maximum value of
the settlement and the attorney’s fees award “ma[de] it all
the more important for the district court to closely examine
the claimed value of the non-cash portions of the settlement
that were used to justify the requested attorneys’ fees.” Roes,
1–2, 944 F.3d at 1051. While the district court asked
questions about the two-year credit monitoring program, it
never made a finding attaching a monetary value to the
program. Again, we have previously reversed district courts
for precisely this reason. See, e.g., Kim, 8 F.4th at 1179
(reversing a settlement approval because we discerned “no
basis for [the district court’s]” decision to “accept[] class
         IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.     45


counsel’s unsupported representation” of the settlement’s
injunctive relief’s worth); Allen, 787 F.3d at 1225 (reversing
a district court after it “did not make express findings about
the value of the injunctive relief”).
    The foregoing errors plainly demonstrate that the district
court failed to apply heightened scrutiny to the settlement
and therefore abused its discretion in approving the
settlement. The settlement should be vacated, and this
matter remanded to the district court so that it can engage in
“a more searching inquiry,” Roes 1–2, 944 F.3d at 1050
(citation omitted), and provide a “clear explanation of why
the disproportionate fee is justified” and why this settlement
was not the result of collusion, In re Bluetooth, 654 F.3d at
949.
                               B
    The majority agrees with much of what I have said.
Specifically, the majority agrees that the district court had a
“heightened obligation to ferret out any evidence of
collusion or other conflicts of interest” in the negotiation of
the settlement. See Opin. at 19 (simplified). The majority
also agrees that the settlement here “raises all three red flags
of potential collusion under Bluetooth,” see Opin. at 17
(citation omitted), and that the district court missed at least
“one glaring error . . . apparent on [the] face” of the
settlement, see Opin. at 11. Further, the majority agrees that,
despite these red flags and the district court’s heightened
obligation, “the district court’s preliminary and final
approval orders were sparse—almost boilerplate—and
memorialized little of the district court’s rationale,” see
Opin. at 16, and that it is impossible to “infer the district
court’s rationale for its fee award from the record,” even
though the court “approv[ed] fees that appear excessive of
46        IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


[the] settlement[’s] value,” see Opin. at 24. The majority
nonetheless upholds the approval of the settlement, but its
reasons for doing so are flawed.
    The majority contends that it “can reasonably infer the
district court’s rationale from the record,” see Opin. at 16,
and that “the district court gave the settlement provisions a
hard look under the Bluetooth factors,” see Opin. at 20. But
this conclusory assertion lacks support in the record. The
district court expressly addressed only one of the Bluetooth
factors—the disparity between the size of the settlement and
the attorney’s fees—and even then, it missed what even the
majority refers to as a “glaring error” concerning the
settlement’s final value. There is thus no evidence in the
record that the district court gave a proper hard look at any
of the Bluetooth factors. Moreover, the district court’s
rationale cannot be “reasonably” inferred when the district
court initially expressed “tremendous concern” about the
settlement’s fee provisions if the settlement’s final value fell
below $2.5 million and then, in an unexplained about-face,
approved the fees award and reaffirmed the settlement
approval even though the settlement’s final value fell to less
than $1.2 million (and, in reality, $950,000). And nowhere
does the record show why the district court rejected the
Kirsten Plaintiffs’ remaining objections. The majority is
simply wrong in concluding that the record here provides a
sufficient basis for affirming the district court. 6


6
   The majority’s apparent reliance on the fact that the district court
questioned the mediator is also contrary to our precedent. As we
explained in In re Bluetooth, “the mere presence of a neutral mediator
. . . is not on its own dispositive of whether the end product is a fair,
adequate, and reasonable settlement agreement. . . . [T]he Rule 23(e)
          IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.              47


     The majority cites two pre-2000 cases for the proposition
that, in some instances, a district court’s issuance of a
conclusory order will not be reversible, but these cases lend
no help to the majority here. See Opin. at 16 (first citing
Hanlon v. Chrysler Corp., 150 F.3d 1011, 1023 (9th Cir.
1998), overruled on other grounds by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
v. Dukes, 564 U.S. 338 (2011), and then citing In re Pac.
Enters. Sec. Litig., 47 F.3d 373, 377 (9th Cir. 1995)). As an
initial matter, the majority misreads Hanlon. The “almost
conclusory” findings that were upheld in Hanlon exclusively
concerned “the requirements of Rule 23(a) and 23(b)(3),”
and not “the ‘fair, adequate and reasonable’ preconditions for
class settlement pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(e).” 150 F.3d
at 1023–24. Indeed, Hanlon explicitly adopted “a more
probing inquiry” standard for pre-class certification
settlements pursuant to Rule 23(e). Id. at 1026–27. And in
explaining why the Rule 23(e) standards were met, Hanlon
did not say that the district court’s comments were
conclusory; on the contrary, it discussed the district court’s
multiple stated reasons at some length. Id. at 1027. By
misciting Hanlon, the majority does exactly what Hanlon
made clear that courts should not do, which is “conflat[e]”
the requirements of Rule 23(a) and (b) with those of Rule
23(e) and thereby water down the latter. Id. at 1023–24. In
any event, we explicitly noted in Hanlon that “[n]o evidence
of collusion was presented to the district court or otherwise
evident in the record.” Id. at 1027. As the majority
concedes, the record of this case is replete with such
evidence. See Opin. at 17–18. Finally, the majority’s
reliance on In re Pacific Enterprises is similarly unavailing.

reasonableness inquiry is designed precisely to capture instances of
unfairness not apparent on the face of the negotiations.” 654 F.3d at 948;
see also Roes, 1–2, 944 F.3d at 1050 n.13 (similar).
48        IN RE: KIRSTEN V. CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC.


In that case, we explicitly noted that the district court
“responded to . . . objections and explained why the
derivative settlement [was] fair.” 47 F.3d at 377. Here, the
district court did neither.
    At bottom, the majority’s error stems from its unfounded
belief that merely “prob[ing]” and “question[ing],” see Opin.
at 20, the parties and a mediator at a hearing is a substitute
for judicial reasoning and the careful exercise of judgment.
But we have said otherwise. We have held that Rule 23(e),
our precedent, and due process demand an “inquiry,
findings, and evaluation of whether the settlement is fair,
reasonable, and adequate.” Allen, 787 F.3d at 1225
(emphasis added). By ruling as it does today, the majority
flouts all three, just as the court below did.
                        *       *        *
     I respectfully dissent.
