              BEFORE THE CALIFORNIA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY



 In the Matter of:                                       Case No. ENF23-V-FO-3

 FORD MOTOR COMPANY

                               Respondent.



                                    ORDER OF DECISION

       The Board of the California Privacy Protection Agency hereby adopts the Stipulated Final

Order, attached hereto, as its decision in the above-captioned matter.

       This Decision shall become effective immediately.

       IT IS SO ORDERED this _____
                              27th day of _________________________, 2026.
                                              February

                                                     BY THE BOARD:




                                                     JENNIFER M. URBAN
                                                     Chair
                                                     California Privacy Protection Agency
MICHAELS. MACKO
Deputy Director of Enforcement
LARA KEHOE HOFFMAN
Assistant Chief Counsel
ALEX D. BERGER (State Bar No. 353829)
MICHAEL J. MEYER (State Bar No. 242706)
Attorneys
   Enforcement Division
   California Privacy Protection Agency
   400 R Street, Suite 350
   Sacramento, CA 95811
   Telephone: (916) 244-6626
   Email: michael.meyer@cppa.ca.gov
Attorneys for Complainant

                 BEFORE THE CALIFORNIA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY


 In the Matter of:                                                     Case No. ENF23-V-FO-3

 FORD MOTOR CO.

                                        Respondent.




                                         STIPULATED FINAL ORDER

       IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and between the parties to the above-
captioned matter:

                                                     I.     PARTIES

       1.     Complainant is the Enforcement Division of the California Privacy Protection
Agency ("Agency"), which enforces the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, Civ. Code
§§ 1798.100--1798.199 .100, as amended ("CCPA"). 1

        2.      Respondent is Ford Motor Company ("Ford"), a Delaware corporation with its
principal place of business at 1 American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 48126.

                                               II.     JURISDICTION

       3.     Pursuant to Civil Code sections 1798.199 .40(a) and 1798.199. 55, the Agency may
enforce the CCPA through administrative actions.


1 All statutory references   are to California law unless otherwise indicated.


CASE NO. ENF23-V-FO-3                                        1                   STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
       4.      Pursuant to Government Code section 11415.60(a), the Agency may formulate
and issue a decision by settlement, pursuant to an agreement of the parties, without conducting
an adjudicative proceeding.

         5.     Ford is a for-profit corporation that collects consumers' personal information and
determines the purposes and means of the processing of consumers' personal information. The
company has an annual gross revenue in excess of $26.625 million, and the company annually
sells or shares, in combination, the personal information of 100,000 or more consumers or
households. Ford conducted business within the State of California at all times relevant to this
Stipulated Final Order.

                                     III.    DEFINITIONS

       The following terms in this Stipulated Final Order shall have these meanings:

       6.      "Agency" means the California Privacy Protection Agency.

       7.      "Collect" has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code section 1798.140(±).

       8.      "Consumer" has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code section 1798.140(i).

      9.     "CCPA" means the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, Civ. Code
§§ 1798.100-1798.199.100, as amended, and its implementing regulations.

       10.     "Digital properties" means all public-facing websites and mobile applications
owned or operated by Ford that are accessible by consumers and subject to the CCPA, including
without limitation, https://www.ford.com/ and the Ford mobile application.

       11.     "Enforcement Division" means Complainant, the Enforcement Division of the
California Privacy Protection Agency.

       12.     "Ford" means Respondent, Ford Motor Company.

        13.   "Personal information" has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code
section 1798.140(v).

       14.     "Regulations" mean Title 11 of the California Code of Regulations.

       15.    "Request to opt-out of sale/sharing" has the same meaning as provided in
California Code of Regulations, title 11, section 7001(rr).

        16.   "Sale" or "sell" has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code
section 1798.140(ad).

        17.   "Share" and "sharing" has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code
section 1798.140(ah).

        18.   "Verifiable consumer request" has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code
section 1798.140(ak).


CASE NO. ENF23-V-FO-3                            2                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                                  IV.    FACTUAL FINDINGS

       19.    For over a century, Ford has manufactured and sold vehicles in the United States.
Given Ford's history, Ford vehicles are visible on roadways throughout California. Hundreds of
thousands of Californians have purchased Ford vehicles.

        20.     The Enforcement Division opened an investigation into Ford's privacy practices
and its compliance with the CCPA as part of a general inquiry into vehicle manufacturers'
privacy practices by the Enforcement Division. During the investigation, Ford cooperated with
the Enforcement Division, produced documents, answered questions, and engaged in candid
discussions about Ford's privacy practices. Ford also updated certain components of its process
to respond to requests to opt-out of sale or sharing during the course of the investigation.

        21.    The relevant time period is July 1, 2023, to March 1, 2024, unless otherwise
indicated.

       A.      Ford Required a Verifiable Consumer Request Before Processing a Request
               to Opt-Out of the Sale/Sharing of Personal Information.

       22.     Consumers have the right, at any time, to opt out of the sale or sharing of their
personal information. Civ. Code§ 1798.120(a)(l).

        23.     A business that sells or shares personal information must provide a notice of right
to opt-out of sale/sharing to consumers. Code Regs., tit. 11, § 7013(e). lfa business provides
such notice online, it must include an interactive form by which a consumer can submit a request
to opt-out of sale/sharing online. Jd § 7013(f)(2).

        24.     A business may not require consumers to submit verifiable consumer requests to
opt out of the sale/sharing of their personal information. Id § 7026(d).

       25.     A "verifiable consumer request" is a request that is made by a consumer (or on
behalf of a consumer) that the business can verify, using commercially reasonable methods, to be
the consumer about whom the business has collected personal information. See Civ. Code
§ 1798.140(ak).

        26.     Although a business may require consumers to submit a verifiable consumer
request to exercise their right to delete, right to know, and right to correct, a business may not
require a verifiable consumer request for the right to opt-out. See Code Regs., tit. 11, §§ 7022(a),
7023(a), 7024(a)-(b), and 7026(d).

       27.     Instead, for requests to opt-out of sale/sharing:

                       A business may ask the consumer for information
                       necessary to identify the consumer whose information
                       shall cease to be sold or shared by the business. However,
                       to the extent that the business can comply with a request




CASE NO. ENF23-V-FO-3                             3                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                      to opt-out of sale/sharing without additional information,
                      it shall do so.

Id. § 7026(d) ( emphasis added).
        28.    During the relevant period, Ford provided notice of the right to opt-out online and
provided the following interactive form for consumers to submit requests to opt-out of
sale/sharing:
                                   Figure 1: Ford~ ConsumerPrivacy Rights Form




                              Wtkome to tht Ford • Llrcoln consumer privacy rlfllts form. This form
                              allows rtsldtnts ol certain st.Otts to ••rclse lhtlr prwacy
                                                                                        rigtn. If you
                              ware to opt-out ol sales, sharing. or targtoed adwrtlsl" tlvoufll
                              cooldts or other onlnt traddng technologies, please stt tht 'Optl" out
                              of Coddts'sectionof our YPYC      Pr!Y::KY (bolCM
                              lbtte·«{ord
                                       ,omlhrlP'P!b@SYfC(Pf)
                                                        page.



                           •Who•••     you submitting   this n,quut   on b•h•    of?

                                                        SOmeane
                                                              forwhom 1
                                     Mystf               am act111gas an
                                                         aulhorittd agenc


                           • Do you h•W an auiw Ford or Lincoln a«ount?




                           • First N•m•



                           •last N1me
                                                                                                        J
                           • Addr•ss



                           • City



                           • Shit•

                                                                                                    X
                           • lip




                                             (Figure I continueson nc,ctpage]




CASE NO. ENF23-V-F0-3                                            4                               STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                             • Phone Number
                                                     --ir-------------
                              United Slates (+ 1)

                             • What is your relationship with Ford?

                                                            Fonnervehl<le
                                                                                   SerVl<:e
                                                                                         CustomerOnly
                                                              Cu51omer

                                MarketingRe<lplent
                                      only




                                  Right10 Kn0w •            Righi 10 Kn0w •
                                                                                      RightlOCorre<t
                                    Catogofies              Spectfic Pieces


                                                              Ol)lOUlof
                                   RightcoDelete                                   Appeal a Mor RequeSI
                                                            Sa-nng




                                                           D     I'm not a robot



                                                                                               Submit



        29.      Consumers used this interactive form to exercise various consumer rights,
including the right to opt-out, related to personal information collected by Ford, including
through its digital properties and connected vehicle services. To exercise these rights, consumers
filled out the required fields, completed the reCAPTCHA, and clicked "submit."

        30.    After consumers submitted requests to opt-out of sale/sharing through Ford's
consumer privacy rights form, Ford could have processed those requests without requiring
additional information.

       31.    Instead, after consumers submitted the interactive form, Ford displayed the
following message on their screens:
                  Figure 2: Page Displayed after Submitting a Request to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing




                                                       One More Step!
                                                    Please confirm your
                                                          Request!

                                            Please check your email for confinnauon,
                                               click confirm and we will start your
                                                             request.




CASE NO. ENF23-V-FO-3                                             5                               STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
         32.    Rather than processing consumers' requests to opt-out---and stopping the selling
and sharing of consumers' personal information as soon as feasibly possible-Ford directed
consumers to check their "email for confirmation" and to "click confirm." Only then would Ford
start to process their requests.

       33.    For those consumers who did check their email, Ford presented them with the
following message:
        Figure 3: Email to ConsumersRequiring VerificationBefore ProcessingRequest to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing




                        Dco
                       We have receivedyour reQuestlistedbelow For us to completethis request.you
                       must confirmyouremail and identityby dicking on the buttonbelow Oncewe have
                       confirmedyour1<Jent1ty
                                           we will respondto your requestwithinthe legallyrequireo
                       11mepenod
                       Your Request 10 ,s                , please keep this for your records
                        Request ID:
                        Date Submitttd:
                       What is your relabonsh1pwrtfl Ford?: CurrenlVehicleCustomer
                       What type of request are you submitting?: Opt Out of 5ales/Shamg
                        First Name: XXXX
                        Last Name: XXXXXXone
                       Email Address: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXcom
                       Who are you submitting this request on behalf of?: Myself
                        Do you have an acbve Ford or Lincoln account?: I don1 havean active account
                       Address: XXXXXXXXXXX      o,
                       City: XXXeer
                        state: Galtfomia
                       Zip: XX446
                        Phone Number: XXXXXXXXXX406

                                                       Confirm Emad


                       If you have any quest10ns, please contact a member or the p<ovacyteam



       34.    In this message, Ford informed consumers that it had received the request, but
before Ford would complete it, "you must confirm your email and identity by clicking the button
below." Ford further explained that, "[o]nce we have confirmed your identity," Ford would
"respond to your request within the legally required time period."

        35.    During the relevant period, Ford deemed as "expired" all requests to opt-out of
sale/sharing submitted by consumers who did not click "Confirm Email" in this message. This
resulted in Ford not processing dozens of requests to opt-out within the period required by the
CCPA. Ford subsequently processed these requests in response to the Enforcement Division's
investigation.




CASE NO. ENF23-V-FO-3                                           6                              STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
        36.     Ford did not intend to require consumers to submit a verifiable consumer request
to exercise their right to opt-out of the sale/sharing of personal information. Nor did Ford intend
to include the language asking consumers to confirm their identities in the email sent to
consumers in response to their requests to opt-out.

         37.    Nevertheless, Ford's practice ofrequiring consumers to confirm their access and
control over their email address before processing a request to opt-out of sale/sharing
impermissibly required consumers to submit a verifiable consumer request. This practice created
unnecessary friction for consumers to exercise their opt-out rights. Consistent with section
7026(d) of the regulations, Ford should have processed consumers' requests to opt-out with the
information consumers provided through Ford's consumer privacy rights form, shown in Figure
1, to the extent it was able to do so within the period required by the CCPA.

        38.    Accordingly, each time Ford required a consumer to submit a verifiable consumer
request to exercise the right to opt-out, Ford violated section 7026(d) of the regulations.

       B.      Ford Sold/Shared Personal Information After Consumers Requested to Opt-
               Out.

       39.     A business that has received direction from a consumer not to sell or share the
consumer's personal information is prohibited from continuing to sell or share that consumer's
personal information. Civ. Code§§ 1798.120(d), 1798.135(c).

         40.     As shown above, Ford provided consumers with an interactive privacy request
form by which consumers could exercise various consumer rights, including the right to opt-out,
by filling out the required fields, completing the reCAPTCHA, and clicking "submit."

        41.    Each consumer who submitted Ford's interactive form to exercise the right to opt-
out thereby directed Ford to stop the sale and sharing of personal information. To the extent Ford
could comply with those requests to opt-out, it should have done so.

        42.    Instead, as described in section A, above, Ford did not process dozens ofrequests
to opt-out within the period required by the CCPA. As a result, Ford continued to sell/share these
consumers' personal information, despite those consumers' direction to Ford to stop.

        43.    Accordingly, Ford violated Civil Code section 1798.120(d) each time Ford
subsequently sold or shared the personal information of a consumer who previously submitted a
request to opt-out through Ford's consumer privacy rights request form.

                                      V.     CONTINGENCY

        44.    This Stipulated Final Order shall be contingent upon approval by the Board of the
California Privacy Protection Agency ("Board"). Ford understands and agrees that counsel for
Complainant and the staff of the Agency may communicate directly with the Board and the staff
of the Agency regarding this Stipulated Final Order, without notice to or participation by Ford or
its counsel. By signing the Stipulated Final Order, Ford understands and agrees that it may not
withdraw its agreement or seek to rescind the Stipulated Final Order before the time the Board
considers and acts upon it. If the Board fails to adopt this stipulation as its Order of Decision, the


CASE NO. ENF23-V-FO-3                             7                  STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
Stipulated Final Order shall be of no force or effect except for this paragraph, it shall be
inadmissible in any legal action between the parties, and the Agency shall not be disqualified
from further action by having considered this matter.

                                   VI.     OTHER MATTERS

        45.     The parties understand and agree that Portable Document Format (PDF) and
facsimile copies of this Stipulated Final Order, including PDF and facsimile signatures thereto,
shall have the same force and effect as the originals. The parties may execute this Stipulated
Final Order in counterparts.

        46.     This Stipulated Final Order is intended by the parties to be an integrated writing
representing the complete, final, and exclusive embodiment of their agreement. It supersedes any
and all prior or contemporaneous agreements, understandings, discussions, negotiations, and
commitments (written or oral). This Stipulated Final Order may not be altered, amended,
modified, supplemented, or otherwise changed except by a writing executed by an authorized
representative of each of the parties.

       47.    In consideration of the foregoing stipulations, the parties agree that the Board
may, without further notice or formal proceeding, issue and enter the following Order of
Decision:

                                         VII.    ORDER

       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

       A.      Monetary Provision

         48.     In accordance with Civil Code section 1798.199.55, Ford shall pay an
administrative fine in the amount of three hundred seventy-five thousand seven hundred three
dollars ($375,703). This payment shall be made to the California Privacy Protection Agency no
later than thirty (30) days after the effective date of the Board's decision approving the Stipulated
Final Order pursuant to written instructions to be provided by the Enforcement Division.

       B.      Compliance with Law

       49.     As required by the CCPA, Ford shall comply with the following provisions of the
CCPA and its implementing regulations: Civil Code sections 1798.100, 1798.120, and 1798.135,
and California Code of Regulations, title 11, sections 7004, 7013, and 7022-7026.

        50.    To the extent it has not already done so, Ford shall modify its methods for
submitting and responding to requests to opt-out of sale/sharing in the following ways as
required by the CCPA:

            a. Ford shall provide consumers with methods to exercise their right to opt-out of
               sale/sharing that are easy and require minimal steps;




CASE NO. ENF23-V-FO-3                             8                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
              b. Ford shall not require verifiable consumer requests for consumers to exercise their
                 right to opt out of sale/sharing; and

              c. When a consumer submits a request to opt-out of sale/sharing, Ford shall honor
                 that request to the extent that it is able to do so within the time period required by
                 the CCPA.

       51.     Ford shall conduct an audit of the tracking technologies, such as cookies, web
beacons, and pixels, on its website, Ford.com, to ensure that each such tracking technology is
properly configured to honor consumers' use of opt-out preference signals, such as the Global
Privacy Control, where required by Code of Regulations, title 11, section 7025.

        52.     Ford shall complete the actions required by paragraphs 50--51 and confirm in
writing to the Enforcement Division that is has completed these actions within 90 days of the
effective date of this Stipulated Final Order.

        53.      Each party shall bear its own attorneys' fees and costs.

                       VIII.     ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISIONS

         54.     By entry of this Stipulated Final Order and following Ford's compliance with all
terms set forth in paragraphs 48-52, the Agency releases Ford (including its subsidiaries,
affiliates, officers, directors, heirs, administrators, executors, successors, and transferees) from
and against all claims the Agency has under the CCPA arising from the conduct set forth in the
factual findings of this Stipulated Final Order.

        55.     Nothing in this Stipulated Final Order shall be construed as relieving Ford of its
obligations to comply with all state and federal laws, regulations, or rules, or as granting
permission to engage in any acts or practices prohibited by such law, regulation, or rule.

        56.    Ford shall use reasonable efforts to notify its officers, directors, employees,
agents, and contractors responsible for carrying out and effecting the terms of this Stipulated
Final Order and the requirements therein.

        57.    Ford agrees that the terms of this Stipulated Final Order are in the public interest
and fair, adequate, and reasonable under all the circumstances.

        58.    Ford neither admits nor denies the truth of the factual findings in this Stipulated
Final Order. Ford does not admit liability for any violation of CCPA, actual or alleged. Ford
agrees to be bound by the terms of this Stipulated Final Order.

        59.     Ford hereby waives the right to any hearings, and to any reconsideration, appeal,
or other right to review which may be afforded pursuant to the California Administrative
Procedures Act, the California Code of Civil Procedure, or any other provision of law. By
waiving such rights, Ford effectively consents to this Stipulated Final Order becoming final.

       60.     This Stipulated Final Order shall bind Ford's subsidiaries, heirs, administrators,
executors, successors, and transferees.


CASE NO. ENF23-V-FO-3                               9                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
        61.    Notwithstanding paragraph 53, in the event the Agency prevails in seeking to
enforce any term of this Stipulated Final Order, the Agency shall be entitled to an award of
attorney fees and costs in its favor and against Ford for the time spent and costs incurred in
prosecuting such action.

       62.     Failure to complete the payment or comply with any terms of this Stipulated Final
Order shall result in enforcement of the Order in the Superior Court.

        63.    Any notices and reports under this Stipulated Final Order shall be served by email
as follows:

       To the Complainant:

       Deputy Director, Enforcement Division
       California Privacy Protection Agency
       400 R Street, Suite 350
       Sacramento, CA 95811
       ENF-processing@cppa.ca.gov

       To the Respondent:

       Jane Regan, Esq.
       Ford Motor Company
       Office of the General Counsel
       World Headquarters
       One American Road
       Dearborn, MI 48126
       jreganl 8@ford.com

        64.     Each person who signs this Stipulated Final Order in a representative capacity
warrants that he or she is duly authorized to do so. Further, each party itself (a) acknowledges
that such party has been advised by competent legal counsel in connection with the execution of
this Stipulated Final Order, has read each and every paragraph of this Stipulated Final Order, and
understands the respective rights and obligations set forth herein, and (b) represents that the
commitments, acknowledgment, representations, and promises set forth herein are freely and
willingly undertaken and given.

       65.    Ford represents that this Stipulated Final Order is freely and voluntarily entered
without any degree of duress or compulsion whatsoever.

Ill
Ill
Ill
Ill
Ill



CASE NO. ENF23-V-FO-3                                              STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                              IX.    SIGNATURES

RESPONDENT
FORD MOTOR COMPNAY
DATED:2/17/2026 I 10: 19 AM EST

                                    BY:

                                               ~~~~;-
                                          Associate General Counsel
                                          FORD MOTOR COMPANY


         AS TO FORMAND CONTENT:
                                               ocuSlgned by:


                                            ~-T~
                                            dt~K1a~&nis, Esq.
                                          Taylor Bloom, Esq.
                                          Baker & Hostetler, LLP
                                          Attorneys for Respondent




CASE NO. ENF23-V-FO-3                     11                   STIPULATEDFINAL ORDER
COMPLAINANT
THE CALIFORNIA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY
ENFORCEMENT DIVISION
       February 17, 2026
DATED: ------

                           BY:


                                 MICHAELS. MACKO
                                 Deputy Director of Enforcement




                                 LARA KEHOE HOFFMAN
                                 Assistant Chief Counsel




                                 Attorney, Enforcement Division
                                 Attorney for Complainant



                                 ~
                                 MIC~_E_YE_R          _____       _
                                 Attorney, Enforcement Division
                                 Attorney for Complainant




CASE NO. ENF23-V-FO-3            12               STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
