               BEFORE THE CALIFORNIA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY



 In the Matter of:                                        Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2

 AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.

                                Respondent.



                                     ORDER OF DECISION

       The Board of the California Privacy Protection Agency hereby adopts the Stipulated Final

Order, attached hereto, as its decision in the above-entitled matter.

       This Decision shall become effective immediately.

       IT IS SO ORDERED this 7th day of                      March            , 2025.

                                                      BY THE BOARD:




                                                      JENNIFER M. URBAN
                                                      Chairperson
                                                      California Privacy Protection Agency
MICHAEL S. MACKO
Deputy Director of Enforcement
LARA KEHOE HOFFMAN
Assistant Chief Counsel
LISA B. KIM (State Bar No. 229369)
DENISE SMITH (State Bar No. 309225)
Attorneys
   Enforcement Division
   California Privacy Protection Agency
   400 R Street, Suite 350
   Sacramento, CA 95811
   Telephone: (916) 244-6626
   Email: Lisa.Kim@cppa.ca.gov
Attorneys for Complainant

                    BEFORE THE CALIFORNIA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY


    In the Matter of:                                                  Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2

    AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.

                                        Respondent.




                                         STIPULATED FINAL ORDER


        IT IS HEREBY stipulated AND AGREED by and between the parties to the above-
entitled matter:

                                                     I.     PARTIES

       1.     Complainant is the Enforcement Division of the California Privacy Protection
Agency, which enforces the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA), Civ. Code
§§ 1798.100 – 1798.199.100, as amended.1

       2.      Respondent is American Honda Motor Co., Inc., a California corporation with its
principal place of business at 1919 Torrance Blvd., Torrance, California 90501. Honda has
conducted business within the State of California at all times relevant to this Stipulated Final
Order.



1
    All statutory references are to California law unless otherwise indicated.


Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                                       1                    STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                                     II.    JURISDICTION

       3.     Pursuant to Civil Code §§ 1798.199.40(a), and 1798.199.55, the Agency may
enforce the CCPA through administrative actions.

        4.      Pursuant to Government Code § 11415.60(a), the Agency may formulate and
issue a decision by settlement, pursuant to an agreement of the parties, without conducting an
adjudicative proceeding.

                                     III.   DEFINITIONS

       The following terms in this Stipulated Final Order shall have these meanings:

       5.      “Agency” means Complainant, the Enforcement Division of the California
Privacy Protection Agency.

       6.      “Authorized Agent” has the same meaning as provided in Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11,
§ 7001(d).

       7.      “Collect” has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code § 1798.140(f).

       8.      “Consumer” has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code § 1798.140(i).

       9.     “CCPA” means the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, Civ. Code
§§ 1798.100 – 1798.199.100, as amended.

        10.    “CCPA Requests” means Consumer requests submitted pursuant to the CCPA,
specifically Civil Code §§ 1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, and 1798.121.
CCPA Requests include Requests to Correct, Requests to Delete, Requests to Know, Requests to
Limit, and Requests to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing as those terms are defined in Cal. Code Regs. tit.
11, § 7001(x), (y), (z), (aa), (bb), and (cc).

       11.    “Cross-context Behavioral Advertising” has the same meaning as provided in
Civil Code § 1798.140(k).

       12.     “Honda” means Respondent American Honda Motor Co., Inc.

        13.     “Personal Information” has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code
§ 1798.140(v), which includes the definition of “unique identifier” or “unique personal
identifier” as set forth in Civil Code § 1798.140(aj).

       14.     “Request to Correct” has the same meaning as provided in Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11,
§ 7001(x).

       15.     “Request to Delete” has the same meaning as provided in Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11,
§ 7001(y).




Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                           2                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
       16.     “Request to Know” has the same meaning as provided in Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11,
§ 7001(z).

       17.     “Request to Limit” has the same meaning as provided in Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11,
§ 7001(aa).

      18.      “Request to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing” has the same meaning as provided in Cal
Code Regs. tit. 11, § 7001(cc).

       19.     “Sale” or “Sell” has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code § 1798.140(ad).

       20.     “Share” has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code § 1798.140(ah).

       21.    “Verifiable Consumer Request” has the same meaning as provided in Civil Code
§ 1798.140(ak).

       22.  “Verify” has the same meaning as provided in Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11,
§ 7001(mm).

                                 IV.     FACTUAL FINDINGS

       23.     Honda is the North American subsidiary of Honda Motor Co., Ltd., a company
incorporated in Japan. Honda distributes, markets, and sells Honda and Acura brand automobiles,
motorcycles, and scooters, among other things.

       24.    Honda has had a long-standing presence in California going back to its founding
in Los Angeles in 1959. Now headquartered in Torrance, California, Honda employs thousands
of workers and supplies 126 Honda and 39 Acura automobile dealerships in California.

        25.    Honda has been selling vehicles in the United States market for more than 60
years. More specifically, since 2020, Honda has sold hundreds of thousands of Honda vehicles,
motorcycles, and other products in California. Honda and Acura vehicles are often listed in the
top 10 cars sold in California.

        26.     Honda is subject to the CCPA, the first comprehensive privacy law in the United
States that gives Californians important rights over how covered businesses Collect, use, Sell,
and Share their Personal Information. Honda is subject to this law as a for-profit corporation that
Collects Consumers’ Personal Information and determines the purposes and means of the
processing of Consumers’ Personal Information.

        27.    Honda had an annual gross revenue in excess of twenty-five million dollars
during the 2023 and 2024 calendar years. Honda also annually Sells or Shares, in combination,
the Personal Information of 100,000 or more Consumers or households.

       28.     The Agency commenced an investigation of Honda’s CCPA compliance practices
on July 31, 2023. Honda produced documents, answered the Agency’s questions, and made
available a corporate representative to meet with the Agency.



Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                           3                  STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
       29.     The relevant time period is January 1, 2023 through November 20, 2024, unless
otherwise indicated.

       A.     Honda’s Method for Submitting Requests to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing and
              Requests to Limit through its Online Privacy Center

      30.     Consumers have asserted their privacy rights with Honda by submitting CCPA
Requests.

       31.    Honda receives CCPA Requests from Consumers through a toll-free phone
number and a website form. Consumers can access the website form through Honda’s online
“Privacy Center” website located at https://www.honda.com/privacy/your-privacy-choices.
Honda also has a “Your Privacy Choices” link on its Honda and Acura homepages that takes
Consumers to its online Privacy Center website.

       32.     Honda’s online Privacy Center includes a listing of privacy choices and links to
various requests forms. As shown below, the Privacy Center provides an option for submitting a
privacy request, a request to correct, and a request to appeal a denial:




       33.     Honda’s “Submit a Privacy Request” link takes Consumers to a webform titled
“Consumer Privacy Rights Request Form” that requires the same information for five different
requests: (1) Do Not Sell of Share My Personal Information, (2) Limit Use of My Sensitive
Personal Information, (3) Opt-Out of Automated Decision Making and Profiling, (4) Personal


Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                          4                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
Information Disclosure, and (5) Delete My Personal Information. As shown in the webform
below, Honda requires Consumers to provide their first name, last name, address, city, state, zip
code, preferred method to receive updates, email, and phone number to submit the request.
Honda also gives Consumers the option to provide the brand of the product they own and the
VIN or serial number of their product.




        34.     By requiring all of this information, Honda’s webform unlawfully requires
Consumers to provide more information than necessary to exercise their CCPA rights to opt-out
of sale/sharing of their personal information and to limit the use and disclosure of their sensitive
personal information. Honda essentially applies a verification standard to these rights.

        35.     The CCPA distinguishes between Consumer requests that require the business to
Verify that the Consumer making the request is the Consumer about whom the business has
collected information, and those requests that do not require verification. Specifically, Requests
to Delete, Requests to Correct, and Requests to Know are Verifiable Consumer Requests, while
Requests to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit are not.

       36.    The CCPA regulations governing the submission of Requests to Opt-Out of
Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit are meant to ensure that Consumers can exercise their
choices without undue burden. Civ. Code § 1798.185(a)(4). These requests are not verifiable
because the potential harm to Consumers resulting from an imposter accessing, deleting, or
changing personal information maintained by the business is minimal or nonexistent for
Requests to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit.

       37.    Accordingly, the CCPA prohibits businesses from requiring Consumers to Verify
themselves before processing Requests to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit. Cal.


Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                            5                  STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
Code Regs. tit. 11, §§ 7026(d), 7027(e), 7060(b). At most, businesses may ask Consumers for
information necessary to complete the request, such as information necessary to identify the
Consumer within their systems, but they may not ask Consumers for more information than
necessary to process their requests. Civ. Code § 1798.135(c)(1); Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11,
§§ 7026(d), 7027(e). To the extent that businesses can comply without additional information,
they are required to do so. Id. at §§ 7026(c), 7027(d).

       38.      Requiring verification for the processing of a Request to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing
or Request to Limit impairs or interferes with the Consumer’s ability to exercise those rights.
The CCPA prohibits businesses from designing methods for submitting CCPA Requests that
substantially subverts or impairs the Consumer’s autonomy, decisionmaking, or choice. Id.
§ 7004; see also Civ. Code § 1798.140(h), (l).

       39.      Honda’s process for submitting Requests to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing and Requests
to Limit was the same for Verifiable Consumer Requests. Honda’s process for submitting CCPA
requests failed to distinguish requests that required verification and those that did not. Honda
used the same webform for both types of requests with no differences in the information required
to process them.

       40.     In addition, although Honda generally needs only two data points from the
Consumer to identify the Consumer within its database, Honda’s verification process for
Verifiable Consumer Requests requires the matching of more than two data points. Thus, Honda
requires more information than necessary.

       41.     Honda’s webform requires Consumers to provide at least eight data fields to
submit their request regardless of whether the Consumer is submitting a Verifiable Consumer
Request or a request that does not require verification, i.e., a Request to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing
or Request to Limit. Those mandatory data fields include name, full address, email, and phone
number. Consumers cannot submit their request unless they provide all eight data fields.

       42.    Honda requires the matching of more than two data points provided by the
Consumer to information within its database before processing the Consumer’s Requests to Opt-
Out of Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit. Honda essentially requires Consumers to Verify
themselves before processing these requests.

      43.    Honda also requires Consumers to provide more information than necessary to
complete Requests to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit.

       44.    From July 1, 2023 through September 23, 2023, Honda required at least 119
Consumers to provide more information than necessary in order to submit their Request to Opt-
Out of Sale/Sharing and Request to Limit, and Honda denied at least 20 Consumer requests by
unlawfully requiring the Consumer to Verify themselves before processing the request.




Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                           6                  STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
       B.      Processing Requests to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit
               Submitted by Consumers’ Authorized Agents

        45.      Consumers can authorize other natural persons or business entities, known as
Authorized Agents, to act on their behalf in asserting their rights under the CCPA. See Cal. Code
Regs. tit. 11, § 7063.

        46.   Honda’s webform for submitting a privacy request contains a checkbox for
Authorized Agents who are submitting the request on behalf of a Consumer. Upon checking this
box, Honda sends correspondence with instructions to the preferred communication method
selected.




       47.     The preferred communication method offers two choices—email and U.S. Mail.
Both choices reflect the email address or U.S. Mail address for the Consumer about which the
request is submitted.




      48.     The CCPA gives Consumers the right to authorize another person to submit a
Request to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing and a Request to Limit on the Consumer’s behalf. See Civ.
Code §§ 1798.135(e); Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11, §§ 7026(j), 7027(i).

        49.    The CCPA’s prohibition on requiring verification for Requests to Opt-Out of
Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit applies equally to requests submitted by the Consumer’s
Authorized Agent. Businesses may ask the Consumer’s Authorized Agent to provide the
Consumer’s signed permission demonstrating that they have been authorized to act on the
Consumer’s behalf. Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11, §§ 7026(j), 7027(i). However, businesses may not
require the Consumer to directly confirm that they have provided the Authorized Agent
permission to submit the request. Businesses may contact Consumers directly in that manner
only for Verifiable Consumer Requests. Id. at § 7063(a).



Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                          7                  STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
       50.    Honda’s process for submitting and processing Requests to Delete and Requests
to Know made by the Consumer’s Authorized Agent is the same as its process for non-verifiable
Requests to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit made by the Consumer’s Authorized
Agent.

       51.    Honda unlawfully requires Consumers to directly confirm with Honda that they
had given permission to the Authorized Agent to submit a Request to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing
and Request to Limit.

       52.     From July 1, 2023 through September 23, 2023, Honda required at least 14
Consumers to directly confirm with Honda that they had given their Authorized Agents
permission to submit the Request to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing or Request to Limit on their behalf.

       C.      Honda’s Method for Submitting Requests to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing
               through its Cookie Management Tool

        53.    Honda contracts with OneTrust, a third-party compliance vendor, to provide a
cookie management tool for its Honda and Acura websites. Through the cookie management
tool, Consumers can opt-out of advertising and other technology that tracks their activity across
different websites for Cross-context Behavioral Advertising purposes.

        54.     As demonstrated by the screenshots below, the different types of cookies
identified in the cookie management tool (i.e., performance cookies, functional cookies, and
advertising cookies) are “allowed” or “active” by default.




       55.      Honda tells Consumers that Advertising Cookies “may be used to build a profile
of your interests and show you advertisements on other sites that we or these third parties believe
would be relevant to you.”




Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                           8                  STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
       56.      To turn “off” or “disallow” the Advertising Cookies, Consumers must go through
two steps. First, they must click on the toggle button to the right of Advertising Cookies, and
second, they must click on the “Confirm My Choices” button.

       57.    If Consumers return to the cookie management tool after turning “off” the
Advertising Cookies, an “Allow All” choice appears.




        58.    To opt back into Advertising Cookies, Consumers only need to take one step. By
clicking on the “Allow All” button, the cookie management tool will accept the Consumer’s
choice and the form will disappear.

        59.     Businesses must design and implement methods for submitting CCPA requests
that are easy to understand, provide symmetry in choice, avoid language or interactive elements
that are confusing to the Consumer, avoid choice architecture that impairs or interferes with the
Consumer’s ability to make a choice, and are easy to execute. Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11, § 7004.

       60.     Symmetry in choice means that the path for a Consumer to exercise a more
privacy-protection option cannot be longer or more difficult or time-consuming than the path to



Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                           9                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
exercise a less privacy-protective option because that would impair or interfere with the
Consumer’s ability to make a choice. Id. at § 7004(a)(2).

       61.    More specifically, a choice is not symmetrical when a business’s process for
submitting a Request to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing requires more steps than that business’s process
for a Consumer to opt-in to the sale of Personal Information after having opted out. Id. at
§ 7004(a)(2)(A).

       62.     A website banner that provides only two options when seeking Consumers’
consent to use their Personal Information—such as “Accept All” and “More Information,” or
“Accept All” and “Preferences”—is not equal or symmetrical. Such a method is not equal or
symmetrical because it allows Consumers to “Accept All” in one step, but requires Consumers to
take additional steps to exercise their rights over their Personal Information. An equal or
symmetrical choice, by contrast, could be between “Accept All” and “Decline All.” Id. at
§ 7004(a)(2)(C).

        63.     Honda’s use of the Advertising Cookies described in its cookie management tool
constitutes the Sharing of Personal Information under the CCPA. Honda makes available
Consumers’ Personal Information to third parties for Cross-Context Behavioral Advertising for
which Consumers have the right to opt-out. Accordingly, Honda’s cookie management tool is a
method through which Consumers can submit their Request to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing.

       64.     Honda’s cookie management tool is also a method by which Honda obtains
consent for the use of Consumer’s Personal Information for other purposes, i.e., performance
cookies and functional cookies.

       65.     Honda’s cookie management tool fails to provide symmetrical choice when it
comes to Consumers’ ability to submit Requests to Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing and for obtaining
Consumers’ consent to use their Personal Information for the purposes stated in the cookie
management tool. While Consumers can “Accept All” cookies with one click, opting out of the
cookies requires at least two clicks.

       D.      Contracts with Advertising Technology Vendors

       66.     Honda Collects Personal Information about Consumers on its websites. Honda
then Sells, Shares, or discloses that Personal Information to advertising technology companies.

      67.    These advertising companies, in turn, use this Personal Information to track
Consumers across different websites for advertising and marketing purposes.

        68.     The CCPA requires businesses that Collect and disclose Personal Information to a
third party, service provider, or a contractor, to enter into an agreement with that third party,
service provider, or contractor that meets certain requirements. See Civ. Code § 1798.100(d);
Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11, §§ 7051, 7053. Those agreements must contain explicit provisions that
protect Consumers. For example, the agreements must identify the limited and specified
purposes for which the Personal Information can be used and must limit the recipient’s use of the
Personal Information for only those purposes. Id. The agreements must also require the recipient



Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                           10                STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
to comply with the CCPA and provide the same level of privacy protection as required of
businesses by the CCPA, among other things. Id.

        69.    Despite Collecting, Selling, Sharing, and disclosing Personal Information with
these advertising technology companies, Honda could not produce contracts with these
advertising technology companies.

      70.    Honda’s failure to implement these safeguards has unnecessarily placed
Consumers’ Personal Information at risk.

                                     V.    CONTINGENCY

         71.    This Stipulated Final Order shall be contingent upon approval by the Board of the
California Privacy Protection Agency (Board). Honda understands and agrees that counsel for
Complainant and the staff of the Agency may communicate directly with the Board and the staff
of the Agency regarding this Stipulated Final Order, without notice to or participation by Honda
or its counsel. By signing the Stipulated Final Order, Honda understands and agrees that it may
not withdraw its agreement or seek to rescind the Stipulated Final Order before the time the
Board considers and acts upon it. If the Board fails to adopt this stipulation as its Order of
Decision, the Stipulated Final Order shall be of no force or effect except for this paragraph, it
shall be inadmissible in any legal action between the parties, and the Agency shall not be
disqualified from further action by having considered this matter.

                                   VI.    OTHER MATTERS

        72.     The parties understand and agree that Portable Document Format (PDF) and
facsimile copies of this Stipulated Final Order, including PDF and facsimile signatures thereto,
shall have the same force and effect as the originals. The parties may execute this Stipulated
Final Order in counterparts.

        73.     This Stipulated Final Order is intended by the parties to be an integrated writing
representing the complete, final, and exclusive embodiment of their agreement. It supersedes any
and all prior or contemporaneous agreements, understandings, discussions, negotiations, and
commitments (written or oral). This Stipulated Final Order may not be altered, amended,
modified, supplemented, or otherwise changed except by a writing executed by an authorized
representative of each of the parties.

       74.    In consideration of the foregoing stipulations, the parties agree that the Board
may, without further notice or formal proceeding, issue and enter the following Order of
Decision:




Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                           11                STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                                        VII.     ORDER

       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

       A.      Monetary Provision

         75.   In accordance with Civil Code § 1798.199.55, Honda shall pay an administrative
fine in the amount of six hundred and thirty-two thousand and five hundred dollars
($632,500.00), of which $382,500 accounts for Honda’s conduct toward 119 Consumers who
were required to provide more information than necessary to submit their Requests to Opt-out of
Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit, 20 Consumers who had their Requests to Opt-out of
Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit denied because Honda required the Consumer to Verify
themselves before processing the request, and 14 Consumers who were required to confirm with
Honda directly that they had given their Authorized Agents permission to submit their Request to
Opt-out of Sale/Sharing and Request to Limit on their behalf. This payment shall be made to the
California Privacy Protection Agency no later than thirty (30) days after the effective date of the
Board’s decision approving the Stipulated Final Order pursuant to written instructions to be
provided by the Enforcement Division.

       B.      Compliance with Law

       76.     Honda shall comply with the following provisions of the CCPA and its
implementing regulations: Civil Code sections 1798.100, 1798.120, 1798.121, and 1798.135,
and California Code Regulations title 11, sections 7003, 7004, 7026, 7027, 7050-7053, and 7060-
7063.

       77.     Honda shall modify its methods for submitting CCPA Requests in the following
ways. These modifications shall apply to all of Honda’s methods for submitting CCPA Requests,
such as requests submitted by phone or online, unless otherwise specified.

               a.      Honda shall only require Consumers making a Request to Opt-Out of
                       Sale/Sharing and Request to Limit to provide information that is necessary
                       to process the request.

               b.      Honda shall not require Consumers to directly confirm with Honda that
                       they have given their Authorized Agent permission to submit a Request to
                       Opt-Out of Sale/Sharing or Request to Limit on their behalf.

               c.      Honda shall change its method for submitting Requests to Opt-Out of
                       Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit by:

                       1.     For its Privacy Center and online methods for submitting CCPA
                              Requests, separating the methods for submitting Requests to Opt-
                              Out of Sale/Sharing and Requests to Limit from the methods for
                              submitting Verifiable Consumer Requests.




Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                           12                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                       2.     Changing the process for Authorized Agents submitting CCPA
                              Requests so that the Authorized Agents provide their contact
                              information in addition to the Consumer’s contact information.

                       3.     Including the link to manage cookie preferences within its Privacy
                              Center, Privacy Policy, and in the footer of its privacy policy
                              webpages.

                       4.     Within its cookie management platform, including a “Reject All”
                              button to provide symmetry in choice with Honda’s “Allow All”
                              button in compliance with Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11, § 7004(a)(2).

                       5.     Applying the Global Privacy Control to also apply to known
                              Consumers in compliance with Cal. Code Regs., tit. 11, § 7025.

        78.     Honda shall complete implementation of any process and system changes to
effectuate the modifications required by paragraph 77(a)-(c)(2) within 90 days of the effective
date of this Stipulated Final Order and paragraphs 77(c)(3)-(5) within 180 days of the effective
date of this Stipulated Final Order.

        79.     Honda shall consult a user experience (UX) designer, who may be an independent
consultant or Honda employee, to evaluate its methods for submitting CCPA Requests and to
make recommendations on how to ensure that methods for submitting CCPA Requests are easy
to use and avoid language and interactive elements that are confusing to a reasonable Consumer.
The UX designer shall evaluate these methods, including identifying target user groups and
performing testing activities, such as A/B testing, to assess user behavior. Within 180 days of the
effective date of the Stipulated Final Order, Honda shall certify to the California Privacy
Protection Agency’s Enforcement Division (“Enforcement Division”) that it received
recommendations from the UX designer and shall inform the Enforcement Division of the timing
within which Honda will make any changes based upon such recommendations.

       80.    Honda shall ensure that all personnel handling CCPA Requests are informed of all
requirements under the CCPA and its implementing regulations relevant to their job functions in
connection with CCPA Requests. Within 90 days of the effective date of the Stipulated Final
Order, Honda shall confirm in writing to the Enforcement Division that it has provided updated
CCPA training to all personnel handling CCPA Requests.

        81.     Honda shall modify its contract management and tracking process to ensure that
all required contractual terms are in place with all external recipients of Personal Information.
Within 180 days of the effective date of the Stipulated Final Order, Honda shall confirm in
writing to the Enforcement Division that all required contractual terms are in place with all
external recipients of Personal Information.

       82.     For a period of five (5) years, and as required by the CCPA thereafter, Honda shall
annually post the metrics described in Cal. Code Regs. tit. 11, § 7102 on its website.

       83.     Each party shall bear its own attorneys’ fees and costs.



Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                           13                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                     VIII.    ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISIONS

        84.     By entry of this Stipulated Final Order and following Honda’s compliance with all
the terms set forth in paragraphs 75-83, the Agency releases Honda from and against all claims
the Agency has under the CCPA arising from the conduct set forth in the factual findings of this
Stipulated Final Order.

        85.     Nothing in this Stipulated Final Order shall be construed as relieving Honda of its
obligations to comply with all state and federal laws, regulations, or rules, or as granting
permission to engage in any acts or practices prohibited by such law, regulation, or rule.

        86.    Honda shall use reasonable efforts to notify its officers, directors, employees,
agents, and contractors responsible for carrying out and effecting the terms of this Stipulated
Final Order and the requirements therein.

        87.     Honda agrees that the terms of this Stipulated Final Order are in the public
interest and fair, adequate, and reasonable under all the circumstances.

        88.     Honda admits the truth of the factual findings in paragraphs 23-28 of this
Stipulated Final Order, but otherwise neither admits nor denies the remaining factual findings in
this Stipulated Final Order. Honda does not admit liability for any violation of the CCPA, actual
or alleged. Honda agrees to be bound by the terms of this Stipulated Final Order.

        89.    Honda hereby waives the right to any hearings, and to any reconsideration,
appeal, or other right to review which may be afforded pursuant to the California Administrative
Procedures Act, the California Code of Civil Procedure, or any other provision of law. By
waiving such rights, Honda effectively consents to this Stipulated Final Order becoming final.

       90.     This Stipulated Final Order shall bind Honda’s subsidiaries, heirs, administrators,
executors, successors, and transferees.

       91.     Notwithstanding paragraph 83, in the event the Agency prevails in seeking to
enforce any term of this Stipulated Final Order, the Agency shall be entitled to an award of
attorney fees and costs in its favor and against Honda for the time spent and costs incurred in
prosecuting such action.

       92.     Failure to complete the payment or comply with any terms of this Stipulated Final
Order shall result in enforcement of the Order in the Superior Court.

        93.    Any notices and reports under this Stipulated Final Order shall be served by email
as follows:




Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                           14                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
       To the Complainant:

       Deputy Director, Enforcement Division
       California Privacy Protection Agency
       400 R Street, Suite 350
       Sacramento, CA 95811
       ENF-processing@cppa.ca.gov

       To the Respondent:

       American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
       Attn: Privacy Counsel
       1919 Torrance Blvd.
       Torrance, CA 90501-2746
       Mail Stop: 300-2-1D

       cc: AHM_ConsumerPrivacyDepartment@na.honda.com

        94.     Each person who signs this Stipulated Final Order in a representative capacity
warrants that he or she is duly authorized to do so. Further, each party itself (a) acknowledges
that such party has been advised by competent legal counsel in connection with the execution of
this Stipulated Final Order, has read each and every paragraph of this Stipulated Final Order, and
understands the respective rights and obligations set forth herein, and (b) represents that the
commitments, acknowledgment, representations, and promises set forth herein are freely and
willingly undertaken and given.

       95.    Honda represents that this Stipulated Final Order is freely and voluntarily entered
without any degree of duress or compulsion whatsoever.

///
///
///
///
///
///
///
///
///
///
///
///


Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2                           15                STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                           IX.   SIGNATURES

RESPONDENT
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.
DATED: February 12, 2025


                                   Alice Lee
                                   Vice President
                                   Product Regulatory Office
                                   AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.

         AS TO FORM AND CONTENT:




                                   Mac Murray & Shuster LLP
                                   Allorneysfor Respondent




Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2              16             STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
COMPLAINANT
THE CALIFORNIA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY
ENFORCEMENT DIVISION
DATED: February 13, 2025
                           BY:


                                 MICHAEL S. MACKO
                                 Deputy Director of Enforcement




                                 LARA KEHOE HOFFMAN
                                 Assistant Chief Counsel




                                 LISA B. KIM
                                 Attorney, Enforcement Division
                                 Attorneys for Complainant




Case No. ENF23-V-HO-2            17               STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
