              BEFORE THE CALIFORNIA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY



 In the Matter of:                                        Case No. ENF24-S-PL-24

 2080 MEDIA, INC. D/B/A PLAYON

 SPORTS

                                Respondent.



                                     ORDER OF DECISION

       The Board of the California Privacy Protection Agency hereby adopts the Stipulated Final

Order, attached hereto, as its decision in the above-entitled matter.

       This Decision shall become effective immediately.

                             27th day of _________________________,
       IT IS SO ORDERED this ____             February              2026.

                                                      BY THE BOARD:




                                                      JENNIFER M. URBAN
                                                      Chair
                                                      California Privacy Protection Agency
                




            MICHAEL S. MACKO (SBN 335866)
            Deputy Director of Enforcement
            LARA KEHOE HOFFMAN (SBN 180466)
            Assistant Chief Counsel
            LISA B. KIM (SBN 229369)
            ALEX D. BERGER (SBN 353829)
            Attorneys
              Enforcement Division
              California Privacy Protection Agency
              400 R Street, Suite 350
              Sacramento, CA 95811
              Telephone: (916) 572-2900
              E-mail: Lisa.Kim@cppa.ca.gov
             Attorneys for Complainant

                                 BEFORE THE CALIFORNIA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY



                  In the Matter of:                                                         Case No. ENF24-S-PL-24

                  2080 Media, Inc., d/b/a PlayOn Sports,

                                                      Respondent.



                                                       STIPULATED FINAL ORDER

                      IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and between the parties to the above-
              entitled matter:

                                                                     I. PARTIES

                     1.    Complainant is the Enforcement Division of the California Privacy Protection
              Agency (“Agency”), which enforces the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, Civ. Code
              §§ 1798.100–1798.199.100, as amended, and its implementing regulations (collectively, the
              “CCPA”).1

                     2.      Respondent is 2080 Media, Inc., d/b/a PlayOn Sports (“PlayOn”), a Delaware
              corporation with its principal place of business at 2990 Brandywine Road, Suite 300, Atlanta,
              GA 30341.




              1
                  All statutory references are to California law unless otherwise stated.

              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                                       1                   STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                




                                                           II. JURISDICTION

                     3.     Pursuant to Civil Code sections 1798.199.40(a) and 1798.199.55, the Agency may
              enforce the CCPA through administrative actions.

                      4.     Pursuant to Government Code section 11415.60(a), the Agency may formulate
              and issue a decision by settlement, pursuant to an agreement of the parties, without conducting
              an adjudicative proceeding.

                     5.       PlayOn is a for-profit corporation that Collects Consumers’ Personal Information
              and determines the purposes and means of the processing of Consumers’ Personal Information.
              The company has an annual gross revenue in excess of $26.625 million, and the company
              annually Sells or Shares, in combination, the Personal Information of 100,000 or more
              Consumers or households. PlayOn conducted business within the State of California at all times
              relevant to this Stipulated Final Order. Thus, the CCPA applies to PlayOn.

                                                           III. DEFINITIONS

                          The following terms in this Stipulated Final Order shall have these meanings:

                          6.      “Agency” means the California Privacy Protection Agency.

                     7.    “CCPA” means the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, Civ. Code
              §§ 1798.100–1798.199.100, as amended, and its implementing regulations.

                          8.      “Collect” has the meaning provided in Civil Code section 1798.140(f).

                          9.      “Consumer” has the meaning provided in Civil Code section 1798.140(i).

                      10.   “Cross-Context Behavioral Advertising” has the meaning provided in Civil Code
              section 1798.140(k).

                     11.    “Digital Properties” mean all public-facing websites and mobile applications
              owned or operated by PlayOn that are accessible by consumers, including without limitation,
              www.playonsports.com, www.gofan.co, www.nfhsnetwork.com, and their respective mobile
              applications.

                     12.     “Enforcement Division” means Complainant, the Enforcement Division of the
              California Privacy Protection Agency.

                     13.     “Opt-out of Sale/Sharing” or “Opting-Out of Sale/Sharing” means any action
              taken by a Consumer to direct PlayOn not to Sell or Share their Personal Information, including
              by enabling an Opt-out Preference Signal.

                       14.     “Opt-out Preference Signal” has the meaning provided in Code of Regulations,
              title 11, section 7001(aa).




              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                              2                STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                 




                     15.   “Personal Information” has the meaning provided in Civil Code section
              1798.140(v).

                    16.   “PlayOn” means Respondent, 2080 Media, Inc., d/b/a PlayOn Sports, including
              GoFan, MaxPreps, and the NFHS Network.

                     17.      “Request to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing” has the meaning provided in Code of
              Regulations, title 11, section 7001(rr).

                          18.      “Sale” or “Sell” has the meaning provided in Civil Code section 1798.140(ad).

                     19.    “Service Provider” has the meaning provided in Civil Code section
              1798.140(ag)(1).

                          20.      “Share” has the meaning provided in Civil Code section 1798.140(ah).

                          21.      “Third Party” has the meaning provided in Civil Code section 1798.140(ai).

                     22.    “Tracking Technologies” mean any scripts, cookies, pixel tags, web beacons,
              software development kits, or other tracking devices or mechanisms that are used to collect and
              analyze information about a Consumer’s activity on a website or application.

                                                        IV. FACTUAL FINDINGS

                      23.     Californians enjoy an inalienable right to privacy in Article I, Section 1 of the
              California Constitution. In 2018, the Legislature took action to protect Californians’ privacy in
              the digital age by enacting the California Consumer Privacy Act. The CCPA gives Consumers
              certain rights with regard to their Personal Information, such as the right to know what Personal
              Information businesses Collect from them, the right to stop businesses from Selling their
              Personal Information, and the right to have it deleted.

                     24.     In November 2020, California voters approved Proposition 24 (“Prop. 24”) with
              the aim of giving Consumers more control over how businesses Collect, use, share, and profit
              from their Personal Information. Prop. 24 strengthened the CCPA and established the Agency as
              an “independent watchdog” to “vigorously enforce the law,” recognizing that the unauthorized
              use and Sharing of Personal Information creates a “heightened risk of harm” for Consumers.
              Prop. 24, § 3(L) (2020).

                      25.     In 2024, the Enforcement Division opened an investigation into PlayOn’s privacy
              practices, during which it later received a complaint from a consumer alleging PlayOn did not
              allow Consumers to opt-out of the Selling and Sharing of Personal Information through Tracking
              Technologies.

                      26.     In December 2024, before hearing from the Enforcement Division, PlayOn
              significantly changed its website, privacy policy, and notice banners. For example, PlayOn
              updated its website to recognize and process a Consumer’s Opt-out Preference Signal. PlayOn
              also revised its notice banner to provide Consumers with two choices of “accept” and “reject”


              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                               3                STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                




              regarding the use of Tracking Technologies. In addition, PlayOn substantially revised its privacy
              policy to reflect the company’s obligations under the CCPA.

                     27.     During the course of the investigation, PlayOn cooperated with the Enforcement
              Division and produced documents, answered questions, and engaged with the Enforcement
              Division in candid discussions about PlayOn’s privacy practices.

                      28.    The relevant time period is January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2024, unless
              stated otherwise. Paragraphs 29 through 60 pertain solely to the Digital Properties owned by
              PlayOn during this relevant time period, and through which it processed Personal Information as
              a Business.

                          A.      PlayOn Provides Digital Ticketing Platforms to High Schools throughout
                                  California

                      29.     PlayOn is a for-profit corporation that describes itself as the leading media and
              technology company in high school sports and other events. As a parent company of GoFan,
              MaxPreps, and the NFHS Network, PlayOn offers schools and other youth sports organizations
              an all-in-one platform for ticketing, streaming, fundraising, concessions, merchandise sales, and
              website management.

                       30.     PlayOn’s GoFan ticketing platform specifically provides schools and other
              organizations the ability to sell tickets to their events digitally. Attendees can purchase tickets
              with a credit or debit card, Apple Pay, or Google Pay, and then use their mobile phone as their
              ticket into the event. Sometimes, this is the only way in which tickets are sold for the event.
                                             Figure 1: PlayOn’s Description of the GoFan Ticking Platform




                      31.     PlayOn operates in all 50 states and is the official ticketing partner for 80% of all
              state associations. It has sold over 30 million tickets to high school events nationwide. These
              events include sporting events, dances, student performances, and camps. For example, high

              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                                      4                     STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
               




              schools will use PlayOn’s GoFan ticketing platform to sell and redeem tickets for high school
              football games, Homecoming and Prom dances, and high school musicals and other theater
              performances.

                       32.     The GoFan ticketing platform can be configured to sell tickets for different
              categories and rates. For example, as demonstrated by the screenshot below, a high school can
              sell different tickets for general admission, children, senior citizens, and high school students.
              PlayOn’s customers determine the names and rates of the different ticket categories, and they
              vary depending on the event.
                                                 Figure 2: Ticket Purchase Page on Mobile Device




                     33.     PlayOn has an especially significant presence in California. Approximately 1,400
              schools in California, both public and private, have contracted with PlayOn to use its ticketing,
              fundraising, and other services.

                      34.    PlayOn has contracted with schools in nearly every county in California, from
              larger ones such as Los Angeles, San Diego, and Orange Counties, to the smaller ones such as
              Modoc, Mono, and Sierra Counties.

                      35.    GoFan is also the official ticketing platform for the California Interscholastic
              Federation (CIF), the governing body for high school sports in the state of California that holds
              state and regional championships.

                   36.     Accordingly, thousands of students, family members, faculty, and other
              community supporters have used PlayOn’s services.




              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                                   5                     STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                




                          B.      PlayOn’s Handling of Consumer Requests to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing

                     37.    Pursuant to the CCPA, Consumers have the right to direct businesses not to Sell or
              Share the Consumer’s Personal Information. See Civ. Code § 1798.120(a).

                      38.     A business that Sells or Shares the Personal Information of Consumers must
              provide two or more methods through which a Consumer can submit Requests to Opt-out of
              Sale/Sharing. See Civ. Code § 1798.135; Code Regs. tit. 11, § 7026(a). A business that Collects
              Personal Information online must, at a minimum, allow Consumers to submit Requests to Opt-
              out of Sale/Sharing through an Opt-out Preference Signal and at least one of the following
              methods: an interactive form accessible via the “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information”
              link, the Alternative Opt-out Link, or the business’s privacy policy if the business processes an
              Opt-out Preference Signal in a frictionless manner. Id.

                      39.    An opt-out Preference Signal allows Consumers to broadcast a “do not sell or
              share” signal across every website they visit, without having to click each time on an opt-out
              link.

                      40.    A business that receives a Consumer’s Request to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing is
              prohibited from continuing any further Sales or Shares of that Consumer’s Personal Information,
              unless the Consumer subsequently consents. See Civ. Code § 1798.120(d).

                                  1.      PlayOn Failed to Offer an Effective Method for Submitting a Request
                                          to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing

                      41.    During the relevant time period, PlayOn’s Digital Properties Collected Personal
              Information using first- and third-party cookies, persistent trackers, and similar Tracking
              Technologies (e.g., MetaPixel) for the purpose of providing advertisements, among other things.
              PlayOn subsequently Sold and Shared the Personal Information it Collected with advertising,
              social media, and analytics partners.

                      42.     As demonstrated by the following screenshots, PlayOn’s GoFan webpages
              disclosed this Collection and use of Personal Information through notice banners:
                                                        Figure 3: Desktop Notice Banner




              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                                  6                   STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                




                                                         Figure 4: Mobile Notice Banner




                          [The banners in Figure and Figure 4 both state the following: “This website collects
                          personal information using first and third-party cookies, persistent trackers, and
                          similar technologies (e.g., MetaPixel) to help us operate this website, provide you
                          with a more personalized user experience, and provide advertisements. The
                          information we collect is shared with our advertising, social media, and analytics
                          partners. Further use of our website or by clicking “Agree” will indicate your
                          agreement to our use of technologies, the Privacy Policy, and the Terms of Use,
                          which includes a binding arbitration clause and jury waiver.”]

                     43.    These notice banners required Consumers to click “Agree” to the use of these
              Tracking Technologies and provided no other way to close the notice banner without clicking on
              “Agree.”

                      44.     When using PlayOn’s GoFan ticketing platform on a phone or mobile device, the
              notice banner covered the portion of the screen that allowed the Consumer to “use” or redeem
              the ticket. Thus, Consumers were forced to first click “Agree” on the notice banner in order to
              use their ticket:




              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                                   7                  STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
               




                                              Figure 5: GoFan Ticket Redemption on a Mobile Device




                      45.     PlayOn ran only one targeted advertising campaign on its ticketing platform
              during the relevant time period. Nevertheless, PlayOn’s use of certain Tracking Technologies on
              its Digital Properties constituted the Sale and Sharing of Personal Information under the CCPA.
              See Civ. Code §§ 1798.140(ad), (ah). Accordingly, PlayOn was required to offer Consumers the
              right to opt-out of the Selling and Sharing of their Personal Information.

                     46.     During the relevant period, PlayOn’s only methods for submitting Requests to
              Opt-out of Sale/Sharing were through a toll-free phone number and email address. But these
              methods did not sufficiently address PlayOn’s Selling and Sharing of Consumers’ Personal
              Information through Tracking Technologies on its Digital Properties, leaving Consumers who
              submitted a Request to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing through these methods with insufficient means to
              Opt-out of the Selling and Sharing of their Personal Information.

                     47.     PlayOn failed in its responsibility to provide a method for opting out of the
              Sale/Sharing of Personal Information by certain Tracking Technologies and instead stated in its
              privacy policy that Consumers should opt-out directly with third parties via the Network
              Advertising Initiative (NAI) and the Digital Advertising Alliance (DAA).

                     48.     As a result, PlayOn violated section 1798.135(a)(1) of the Civil Code each time it
              Collected and subsequently Sold or Shared Consumers’ Personal Information through these

              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                                   8                    STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                




              Tracking Technologies without providing Consumers with an effective way to opt-out of such
              Selling and Sharing.

                      49.     PlayOn also violated section 1798.120(d) of the Civil Code each time it
              subsequently Sold or Shared a Consumer’s Personal Information through Tracking Technologies
              after receiving direction from the Consumer to stop Selling and Sharing the Consumer’s Personal
              Information when the Consumer submitted a Request to Opt-out of Sale/Share using the toll-free
              phone number or email address offered by PlayOn.

                                  2.      PlayOn Failed to Recognize and Honor Opt-Out Preference Signals

                      50.     Consumers can also submit a Request to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing by configuring
              their web browsers to transmit an Opt-out Preference Signal. See Civ. Code § 1798.185(a)(18)–
              (19); see also Code Regs. tit. 11, § 7025.

                      51.    During the relevant time period, PlayOn failed to configure its Digital Properties
              to recognize and honor Consumers’ Requests to opt-out of Sale/Sharing using an Opt-out
              Preference Signal.

                     52.     Accordingly, PlayOn violated sections 1798.120(a) and 1798.135(a) of the Civil
              Code, and section 7026 of title 11 of the California Code of Regulations, each time PlayOn failed
              to honor a Consumer’s Request to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing submitted using an Opt-out
              Preference Signal.

                          C.      PlayOn’s Deficient Notices to Consumers

                      53.     The CCPA requires businesses to provide Consumers with a comprehensive
              description of the business’ online and offline information practices, to inform Consumers “about
              the rights they have regarding their personal information,” and give Consumers “information
              necessary for them to exercise those rights.” Code Regs. tit. 11, § 7011(a). Businesses are
              required to provide this information through a privacy policy that is updated at least once every
              twelve months and posted online and accessible through a conspicuous link. Civ. Code
              § 1798.130(a)(5); Code Regs., tit. 11, § 7011(d), (e)(2).

                       54.    Privacy policies must inform Consumers of their statutorily provided privacy
              rights, including the right to opt-out of the Sale and Sharing of Personal Information, and how to
              exercise those rights. See Code Regs. tit. 11, § 7011(e). Businesses operating online must also
              explain how an Opt-out Preference Signal will be processed and how Consumers can use an Opt-
              out Preference Signal. See id. § 7011(e)(3)(F).

                      55.     A business that Sells or Shares Personal Information must also provide Notice of
              Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing by either posting a “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal
              Information” or “Your Privacy Choices” link. The link must either take the Consumer to a
              webpage that provides all the required information or immediately effectuate the Consumer’s
              right to opt-out. If linked to the privacy policy, it must take the Consumer to the specific section
              of the privacy policy that provides the required information. See id. § 7013.



              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                            9                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
               




                     56.     A business shall not Sell or Share the Personal Information it Collected during the
              time the business did not have a Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing posted unless it
              obtains the consent of the Consumer. Id. § 7013(h).

                      57.     Before revising its privacy policy in February 2024, PlayOn’s privacy policy had
              not been updated since July 2022. See Civ. Code § 1798.130(a)(5). That privacy policy also
              failed to inform Consumers of their right to opt-out of the Sharing of their Personal Information
              and claimed that PlayOn did not Sell Consumers’ Personal Information. PlayOn also failed to
              inform Consumers how to exercise their right to opt-out of Sale/Sharing, including through the
              use of an Opt-out Preference Signal.

                     58.     Similarly, PlayOn’s “Your Privacy Choices” link failed to include all the
              information required in a Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing and directed Consumers to
              PlayOn’s deficient methods for submitting a Request to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing discussed above.

                      59.     Accordingly, PlayOn violated Code of Regulations, title 11, section 7011(e)(3)(C)
              by failing to provide an adequate Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing and violated section
              7011(e)(3)(F) by failing to explain how PlayOn would process an Opt-out Preference Signal and
              how Consumers could use an Opt-out Preference Signal.

                     60.    PlayOn also violated Code of Regulations, title 11, section 7013(h) each time it
              Sold or Shared Personal Information that PlayOn Collected during the period PlayOn did not
              have an adequate Notice of Right to Opt-out Of Sale/Share.

                                                          V. CONTINGENCY

                       61.    This Stipulated Final Order shall be contingent upon approval by the Board of the
              California Privacy Protection Agency (Board). PlayOn understands and agrees that counsel for
              Complainant and the staff of the Agency may communicate directly with the Board and the staff
              of the Agency regarding this Stipulated Final Order, without notice to or participation by PlayOn
              or its counsel. By signing the Stipulated Final Order, PlayOn understands and agrees that it may
              not withdraw its agreement or seek to rescind the Stipulated Final Order before the time the
              Board considers and acts upon it. If the Board fails to adopt this stipulation as its Order of
              Decision, the Stipulated Final Order shall be of no force or effect except for this paragraph, it
              shall be inadmissible in any legal action between the parties, and the Agency shall not be
              disqualified from further action by having considered this matter.

                                                       VI. OTHER MATTERS

                      62.     The parties understand and agree that Portable Document Format (PDF) and
              facsimile copies of this Stipulated Final Order, including PDF and facsimile signatures thereto,
              shall have the same force and effect as the originals. The parties may execute this Stipulated
              Final Order in counterparts.

                      63.     This Stipulated Final Order is intended by the parties to be an integrated writing
              representing the complete, final, and exclusive embodiment of their agreement. It supersedes any
              and all prior or contemporaneous agreements, understandings, discussions, negotiations, and
              commitments (written or oral). This Stipulated Final Order may not be altered, amended,

              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                           10               STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                




              modified, supplemented, or otherwise changed except by a writing executed by an authorized
              representative of each of the parties.

                     64.    In consideration of the foregoing stipulations, the parties agree that the Board
              may, without further notice or formal proceeding, issue and enter the following Order of
              Decision:

                                                                VII. ORDER

                          A.      Administrative Fine

                       65.    In accordance with Civil Code § 1798.199.55, PlayOn shall pay an administrative
              fine in the amount of one million one hundred thousand dollars ($1,100,000). This payment shall
              be made to the California Privacy Protection Agency no later than thirty (30) days after the
              effective date of the Board’s decision approving the Stipulated Final Order pursuant to written
              instructions to be provided by the Enforcement Division.

                          B.      Compliance with Law

                     66.      The Agency recognizes and credits PlayOn’s remediation efforts. PlayOn has
              substantially revised its practices and has committed substantial financial and other resources to
              remediating the shortcomings identified in this Stipulated Final Order, even before PlayOn
              learned about the Agency’s investigation.

                     67.     To the extent not already done so, PlayOn shall do the following with respect to
              any Digital Properties through which it processes Personal Information as a Business:

                                  a.      Comply with the CCPA and its implementing regulations, including, to the
                                          extent applicable, Civil Code sections 1798.100, 1798.120, 1798.121,
                                          1798.130, and 1798.135, and Code of Regulations, title 11, sections 7002,
                                          7003, 7004, 7010–7014, 7025–7028 and 7050–7053.

                                  b.      Scan its Digital Properties, at least quarterly, to maintain a full and current
                                          inventory of Tracking Technologies.

                                  c.      Maintain contracts that comply with Code of Regulations, title 11, section
                                          7053(a)(1)–(6), with all Third Parties that receive or have access to
                                          Personal Information through the Tracking Technologies on PlayOn’s
                                          Digital Properties.

                                  d.      For any Tracking Technologies that PlayOn uses to Share Personal
                                          Information, PlayOn shall properly configure the Digital Property to
                                          recognize and give full effect to Consumer requests to opt out of such
                                          sharing submitted through: (i) an Opt-out Preference Signal, as required
                                          by Code of Regulations, title 11, section 7025(c), and (ii) PlayOn’s other
                                          methods for submitting Requests to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing, as required
                                          by Code of Regulations, title 11, section 7026.


              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                                11                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
               




                                 e.      If PlayOn Sells or Shares Consumers’ Personal Information, PlayOn shall
                                         maintain a “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” or “Your
                                         Privacy Choices” link on its Digital Properties that allows Consumers to
                                         exercise their choice regarding the Sale and Sharing of their Personal
                                         Information.

                                 f.      Within 90 days of the effective date of the Stipulated Final Order, and to
                                         the extent it has not already done so, PlayOn shall review its practices—
                                         including its privacy policy, notices, consent management platform, and
                                         privacy rights request mechanisms—for compliance with the CCPA.

                     68.    Risk Assessments. Beginning on January 1, 2026, the Selling or Sharing of
              Personal Information, among other things, will require a business to conduct a risk assessment.
              See Code Regs., tit. 11, § 7150(b). Accordingly, with respect to PlayOn’s GoFan and NFHS
              Network services:

                                 a.      For PlayOn’s current processing of users’ Personal Information that meet
                                         the thresholds in section 7150(b), to the extent it has not already done so,
                                         PlayOn shall conduct a risk assessment that meets the requirements of
                                         Code of Regulations, title 11, sections 7150–7157 within one year of the
                                         effective date of the Board’s decision approving this Stipulated Final
                                         Order.

                                 b.      For a period of three (3) years following the completion of PlayOn’s risk
                                         assessment under paragraph 68(a), and as required by the CCPA thereafter,
                                         PlayOn shall update their risk assessments in accordance with the
                                         requirements of Code of Regulations, title 11, sections 7150–7157, before
                                         any material change in the processing of users’ Personal Information. A
                                         change relating to the processing of users’ Personal Information is material
                                         if it creates new negative impacts, increases the magnitude or likelihood of
                                         previously identified negative impacts, or diminishes the effectiveness of
                                         safeguards. See Code Regs., tit. 11, § 7155(a)(3).

                                 c.      In identifying negative impacts to Consumers’ privacy associated with the
                                         processing of their Personal Information, PlayOn’s risk assessments shall
                                         consider whether it is coercing or compelling Consumers into allowing the
                                         processing of their Personal Information. For example, PlayOn shall
                                         consider whether users are required to consent to the Selling or Sharing of
                                         their Personal Information with one or more parties in order to participate
                                         in certain events. See Code Regs., tit. 11, § 7152(a)(5).

                                 d.      PlayOn’s risk assessments regarding the processing of users’ Personal
                                         Information shall be reviewed by PlayOn’s Board of Directors. In its risk
                                         assessment, PlayOn shall identify and document the date the assessment
                                         was reviewed by the Board of Directors, and the names of the individuals
                                         who reviewed the assessment. See Code Regs., tit. 11, § 7152(a)(9) (eff.
                                         Jan. 1, 2026).

              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                              12                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
                 




                                   e.      Based on its risk assessments, PlayOn shall not process Personal
                                           Information in a manner in which PlayOn determines that the risks to the
                                           privacy of the Consumer outweigh the benefits resulting from the
                                           processing to the Consumer, the business, other stakeholders, and the
                                           public. See Code Regs., tit. 11, § 7154 (eff. Jan. 1, 2026).

                      69.     Notices and Disclosures. PlayOn shall evaluate the notices and disclosures made
              on its Digital Properties, including in its notice banner and consent management platform, to
              ensure that the language used is easy to read and understandable to Consumers who use its
              services, taking into consideration the age of the intended audience of such services. For
              example, notices and disclosures made on services selling tickets to high school events must be
              easy to read and understandable to attendees of those events. To the extent necessary, PlayOn
              shall make changes to the language used in its notices and disclosures within 90 days of the
              effective date of the Stipulated Final Order. See Code Regs., tit. 11, §§ 7003, 7004

                      70.   Metrics. For a period of three (3) years, and as required by the CCPA thereafter,
              PlayOn shall annually post on its website the metrics described in Code of Regulations, title 11,
              section 7102.

                     71.    Unless otherwise specified, PlayOn shall complete implementation of any process
              and system changes to effectuate the modifications required by this Stipulated Final Order within
              one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of the Board’s decision approving it.

                          72.      Each party shall bear its own attorneys’ fees and costs.

                                           VIII. ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       73.    By entry of this Stipulated Final Order and following PlayOn’s compliance with
              all the terms set forth in paragraphs 65-72, the Agency releases PlayOn from and against all
              claims the Agency has under the CCPA arising from the conduct set forth in the factual findings
              of this Stipulated Final Order.

                      74.     PlayOn admits the truth of the factual findings in paragraphs 29–36 of this
              Stipulated Order. PlayOn otherwise neither admits nor denies the remaining factual findings in
              this Stipulated Order. PlayOn does not admit liability for any violation of the CCPA, actual or
              alleged. PlayOn agrees to be bound by the terms of this Stipulated Final Order.

                      75.     Nothing in this Stipulated Final Order shall be construed as relieving PlayOn of
              its obligations to comply with all applicable state and federal laws, regulations, or rules, or as
              granting permission to engage in any acts or practices prohibited by such law, regulation, or rule.

                      76.    PlayOn shall use reasonable efforts to notify its officers, directors, employees,
              agents, and contractors responsible for carrying out and effecting the terms of this Stipulated
              Final Order and the requirements therein.

                      77.     PlayOn agrees that the terms of this Stipulated Final Order are in the public
              interest and fair, adequate, and reasonable under all the circumstances.


              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                                13                 STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
               




                      78.     PlayOn waives the right to any hearings, and to any reconsideration, appeal, or
              other right to review which may be afforded pursuant to the California Administrative
              Procedures Act, the California Code of Civil Procedure, or any other provision of law. By
              waiving such rights, PlayOn consents to this Stipulated Final Order becoming final.

                     79.     This Stipulated Final Order shall bind PlayOn’s subsidiaries, heirs, administrators,
              executors, successors, and transferees.

                     80.     Notwithstanding paragraph 72, in the event the Agency prevails in seeking to
              enforce any term of this Stipulated Final Order, the Agency shall be entitled to an award of
              attorney fees and costs in its favor and against PlayOn for the time spent and costs incurred in
              prosecuting such action.

                     81.     Failure to complete the payment or comply with any terms of this Stipulated Final
              Order shall result in enforcement of the Order in the Superior Court of California.

                      82.        Any notices and reports under this Stipulated Final Order shall be served by email
              as follows:

                                 To the Complainant:

                                 Deputy Director, Enforcement Division
                                 California Privacy Protection Agency
                                 400 R Street, Suite 350
                                 Sacramento, CA 95811
                                 ENF-processing@cppa.ca.gov

                                 To the Respondent:

                                 2080 Media, Inc. d/b/a PlayOn Sports
                                 Attn: Chief Legal Officer
                                 2990 Brandywine Road, Suite 300
                                 Atlanta, GA 30341
                                 legal@playonsports.com; anna@zwillgen.com

                      83.     Each person who signs this Stipulated Final Order in a representative capacity
              warrants that he or she is duly authorized to do so. Further, each party itself (a) acknowledges
              that such party has been advised by competent legal counsel in connection with the execution of
              this Stipulated Final Order, has read each and every paragraph of this Stipulated Final Order, and
              understands the respective rights and obligations set forth herein, and (b) represents that the
              commitments, acknowledgment, representations, and promises set forth herein are freely and
              willingly undertaken and given.

                     84.    PlayOn represents that this Stipulated Final Order is freely and voluntarily entered
              without any degree of duress or compulsion whatsoever.




              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                             14                STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
               




                                                          IX. SIGNATURES




               RESPONDENT
               2080 MEDIA, INC., D/B/A PLAYON SPORTS
               DATED:  
                      _______________

                                                               BY:
                                                                     Lesley Wainwright
                                                                     Chief Legal Officer
                                                                     2080 Media, Inc., d/b/a PlayOn Sports


                              AS TO FORM AND CONTENT:



                                                                     Anna Hsia
                                                                     ZwillGen Law LLP

                                                                     Stacey Brandenburg
                                                                     Marci Rozen
                                                                     ZwillGen PLLC

                                                                     Attorneys for Respondent




              CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24                                 15              STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
COMPLAINANT
THE CALIFORNIA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY
ENFORCEMENT DIVISION
DATED: January
       _______________
               16, 2026
                           BY:
                                 MICHAEL S. MACKO
                                 Deputy Director of Enforcement




                                 LARA KEHOE HOFFMAN
                                 Assistant Chief Counsel




                                 LISA B. KIM
                                 Senior Privacy Counsel & Advisor




                                 ALEX D. BERGER
                                 Attorney, Enforcement Division

                                 Attorneys for Complainant




CASE NO. ENF24-S-PL-24           16              STIPULATED FINAL ORDER
